Internal invoice No.
Patient: XXX
Department of Cancer Pathology
Date:
copy No.
Examination: Histopathological examination
Cost of diagnostic procedure
Examination No.:
PESEL: XXX
Age:
Gender: F
ICD-0-3
Material: Multiple organ resection right breast.
Unit in charge:
Physician in charge:
Material collected on
Material received on:
page 1 / 2
Carcinoma, mucinous 8480/3
Sitas breast, NOS
050.9
Expected time of examination: 5 working days
Clinical diagnosis: Right breast - advanced cancer of both breasts, toilet mastectomy of both breasts.
Examination performed on:
Results of immunohistochemical examination:
Estrogen receptors found in over 75% of neoplastic cell nuclei. Progesterone receptors found in over 75% of neoplastic cell
nuclei. HER2 protein stained with HercepTestTM by DAKO. Negative reaction in invasive carcinoma cells (Score = 1+ }
Examination performed on:
'
Compliance validated by:
سل
for 4/12/11
Macroscopic description:
Right breast sized 19 x 9 x 6 cm removed along with axillary tissues sized 7 x 3 x 2 cm and a skin flap of 13 x 9.5 cm. Weight 370
g.
Tumour sized 7 x 4 x 8 cm found in the central part. Margin to the lower boundary - uncertain, margin to the base - uncertain,
margin to the skin 0.1 cm.
Histopathological diagnosis:
Carcinoma mucinosum invasivum - NHG2 (3+2+1/5 mitoses/10 HPF - visual area 0.55mm).
Invasive mucinous carcinoma of the right breast
Numerous foci of carcinoma ductale found outside the tumour (cribrate type, with medium nuclear atypia, without
necrosis) and lesions of the type mastopathia fibrosa et cystica, hyperplasia ductalis simplex (UDH) AXILLARY LYMPH
NODES:
Micrometastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo (No I/XX).
Examination performed on:
Compliance validated by:
UUID:ESD2E429-C41C-47E2-96CB-F3B6F412499B
TCGA
-D8-A1XC-01A-PR
Redacted
Geria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tuinur Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Disc pancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Prinary Noted
Case is (circle):
ReviewerInitals
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
tw 4/12/11/
Patient: XXX
Examination: Histopathological examination
page 2 / 2
examination No.:
PESEL: XXX
Gender: F
Examination performed on:
Complementary diagnosis:
Complementary macroscopic description:
Extensive skin proliferation. Minor ulceration in the skin. Skin proliferation confirmed microscopically. Focal
tumour pattern along the incision line at the side of the base and lower boundary.
Compliance validated by:
Examination performed on:
Test result:
Carcinoma mucinosum invasivum with a neuroendocrinic component mammae dextrae. Micrometastasis
carcinomatosa in lymphonodo axillae (No I/XX) (NHG2, pT4b, pNla mi). Immunophenotype: CK7+/- (Only part of the
cells exhibit positive reaction, CK5/6 -, p63-, calponin ambiguous reaction, synaptophysin +, chromogranin -/+).
Compliance validated t
CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT!
