Sex:
D.O.B.:
UUID:91347009-C0A1-4BB1-8445-0008769859AF
TCGA-GC-A3WC-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right ureter, excision:
Complete cross section of benign ureter, no tumor identified.
Intraoperative consultation corroborated.
8. Left ureter, excision:
Complete cross section of benign ureter, no tumor identified.
Intraoperative consultation corroborated.
C. Bladder, pelvic lymph nodes; cystectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: Poorly-differentiated.
3. Tumor size: 5.3 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm.
IPAA Discrepancy
ritería
Yes
No
cagnosis Discrepancy
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
ual/Synchronous Primary Noted
ase is (circle):
eviewer Intials
QUALIFIED
Reviewed
DISQUALIFIED
4. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades completely through the muscularis propria into the surrounding adipose tissue.
5. Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical Margins:
1. Surgical margins including left and right ureter, urethra, and deep soft tissue are negative for tumor.
Lymph Node Status:
1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: 2
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0 (0/2).
Other:
1. Focal urothelial dysplasia present.
2. pTNM stage: pT3, NO.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: None given
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right ureter with frozen section
B. Left ureter with frozen section
C. Bladder and pelvic lymph nodes
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Electronic Signature:
CLINICAL INFORMATION
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial, NOS
Site: bladder, NOS
812013
06719
5·1-12
RD
SPECIMEN DATA
The specimen is received in three containers labeled with the patient's name,
Container A is additionally labeled "right ureter" and contains a 0.4 cm in length by 0.4 cm diameter cylindrical portion of pink-tan soft tissue consistent
with ureter. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section. The residual wrapped in tissue paper and entirely resubmitted for permanent section
in cassette A labeled
Container B is additionally labeled "left ureter, clip on distal end" and contains a 0.4 cm in length by 0.4 cm diameter, pink-tan cylindrical soft tissue with
adherent fibroadipose tissue. A clip is present at one end and denotes distal. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section with the residual
wrapped in tissue paper and entirely resubmitted for permanent section in cassette B labeled
Container C is additionally labeled "Bladder and pelvic lymph nodes" and contains a cystectomy specimen having overall dimensions of 10.0 x 7.0 x 4.5
cm. The specimen is comprised of bladder (6.0 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm), right ureter (4.5 cm in length by 0.3 cm in diameter), left ureter (5.5 cm in length by 0.3
cm), associated pericystic fat, and portion of vaginal mucosa (6.0 x 3.0 cm). The vaginal mucosa is purple-pink, glistening and erythematous with no
discrete lesions. The urethral margin is inked, amputated and radially sectioned to reveal a 5.3 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm, pink-tan, fungating, friable and ulcerated
mass involving the right lateral wall. This mass approaches to within 4.0 cm of the urethral margin and to within 0.6 cm of the right ureteral orifice.
Additionally, this mass resides 2.5 cm from the left ureteral orifice. On section, this mass invades 1.8 cm through the detrusor muscle and approaching
to within 0.2 cm of the inked deep margin. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan and glistening with no additional lesions. On section and palpation,
no lymph nodes are identified within the perivesicular fat.
Also received in the same container is a 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On palpation, two firm fatty possible lymph
designated
nodes are identified, 1.0 and 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes C1-14 labeled
as follows: C1-2 urethral margin, perpendicular; C3 mass to inked deep margin and right ureteral orifice; 4-6 mass to inked deep margin; / mass to
normal appearing mucosa; 8 trigone to include vaginal mucosa; 9 posterior bladder wall; 10 bladder dome; 11 anterior bladder wall; 12 left ureteral
orifice: 13 one whole possible lymph node: 14 one whole possible bisected lymph node. Additionally, a yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted
for genomics research, each labeled
IKA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: FSA: Negative per
esults were communicated to
alter commirning patient identity.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: FSB: Negative per Dr.
