Patient:
UUID:821ED144-DF12-4E49-ADC7-27FA5E422883
TCGA-UU-A93S-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DOB:
Age
Sex: F
Account:
MRN:
Requested by:
Copy to:
Patient
Clinical Data: Right breast mass
1.
2.
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Accession:
Date Collected:
Date Received:
Date Reported:
Pectoralis muscle:
Invasive poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with a breast primary. See synoptic report.
Cautery artifact noted.
Right breast, mastectomy (2,374 grams):
Invasive poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with a breast primary. See synoptic report.
SYNOPTIC REPORT
Procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen laterality:
Tumor site:
Histologic type of invasive
carcinoma:
Tumor size:
Histologic grade (Nottingham
Histologic Score):
Glandular/tubular differentiation:
Mastectomy
Right
ICD-0-3
NOS
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct 850013
Not performed
Invasive carcinoma involves all quadrants
Invasive ductal carcinoma
19 cm
Score 3
Score 3
Site & Breast NOS C50.9
9408/26/14
-
Nuclear pleomorphism:
.
Mitotic rate:
Total overall grade:
Tumor focality:
Ductal carcinoma in-situ:
Skin/nipple:
Skeletal muscle:
Margins:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Calcifications:
Greater than 8 mitoses/mm², score 3
9, grade III (G3)
Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Not identified
There is ulceration of the skin by tumor. There is dermal lymphatic invasion.
Carcinoma invades the skeletal muscle.
Invasive carcinoma is identified at the deep margin including involvement of the
skeletal muscle.
Invasive ductal carcinoma is identified within 0.2 cm of the superior skin/soft tissue
margin.
Identified including dermal lymphatic invasion
Present in invasive carcinoma
Page 1 of 2
Patient:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT - CONTINUED
Ancillary studies:
Result ID:
Accession:
ER, PR and HER-2/neu studies have been ordered on block E and will be reported
separately.
Pathologic Tumor Stage:
pT4d NX
Pathologist, Electronic Signature
SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED: GROSS DESCRIPTION
1.
2.
Pectoralis muscle: Received fresh for frozen section diagnosis is a single segment of skeletal muscle with attached
fibroadipose tissue and soft tissue measuring 6.5 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is unoriented. One surface is inked black
and the opposite surface is inked orange. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis in three cassettes. The frozen section remnant is submitted in cassettes A-C.
Right breast: In formalin labeled with the patient's name and medical record number is a 2374-gram, 26 x 18 x 11 cm
right simple mastectomy surfaced by brown skin. The specimen is oriented with a short stitch designated as superior and
a long stitch as lateral. The skin surface displays a 19 x 15.5 cm nodular gray-yellow mass involving the entire nipple
areolar complex. The nipple is not definitively identified. The mass comes to with in 1.5 cm of the inferior skin margin, 2.5
cm of the superior skin margin, 1.8 cm of the lateral skin tip, and 8 cm of the medial skin tip. The superior skin margin is
inked blue, the inferior skin margin is inked green, and the deep margin is inked black. Upon sectioning the mass
involves all four quadrants and approaches the deep margin. Red-brown muscle is identified at the deep margin, which
also appears to be involved by tumor grossly. The cut surface of the mass is pink-gray to tan-yellow, firm, and glistening.
The mass occupies approximately 80% of the breast parenchyma. The remaining cut surface displays yellow adipose
tissue intermixed with dense tan-white fibroglandular tissue. Representative sections are submitted in nine cassettes as
follows: A B superior skin margin, C - D - the inferior margin, E - F - mass to include the deep margin, G - the deep
margin to include muscle, H-1 - the mass to include skin involvement. The specimen is placed in formalin at
giving a total formalin fixation time of approximately 8.5 hours.
INTRAOPERATIVE REPORT:
1.
Frozen Section Diagnosis: Carcinoma present, involving skeletal muscle
CPT CODE(S):
88331, 88307, 88305
ICD-9 CODE(S):
[1749]
FACILITY:
END OF REPORT
Criteria
lu 12/13/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Turnor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Nated
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials (
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
1210-2015
