Name:
Path No.:
MRN:
Date Obtained:
D.O.B.
(Age:
Sex:
F
Date Received:
Physician:
Location:
UUID:0CD23E1B-3FA3-4A43-AE6E-C8E7B51252F8
TCGA-3C-AAAU-01A-PR
Redacted
SPECIMEN:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
**See Addendum/Procedure**
A:Lymph node, left axilla sentinel, biopsy
B:Breast, left, modified radical mastectomy
DIAGNOSIS(ES):
A. Lymph node, left axilla sentinel, biopsy:
ICDO.3
Carcinoma in Strating lobular 852013
Site
path
Metastatic carcinoma, following carcinoma of breast.
B. Breast, left, modified radical mastectomy:
Breast Nos 650.9
"⑥) Breast, lower outer quadrant (50.5
706/13/14
1. Carcinoma, invasive lobular, poorly differentiated, multifocal, with extensive lymphatic permeation
and extension into nipple.
2. Lobular neoplasia, multifocal.
3. Fibrocystic disease, proliferative, with atypia.
4. Metastatic carcinoma in 3 of 12 axillary lymph nodes.
Date Dictated:
CLINICAL INFORMATION: None.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in two parts.
Part A is received unfixed in a container labeled with the patient's name and "sentinel node #1". It consists of one piece
of well circumscribed gritty tan tissue with attached fat measuring 1.2x1.0x0.6cm. It is bisected and a portion of it is
submitted as AFS. The rest is submitted in one cassette labeled A1.
Part B is received unfixed in a container labeled with the patient's name and "left breast mastectomy tissue" consists of
a left radical modified mastectomy specimen measuring 21x17x3 cm. The skin measures 9.5x5x0.1 cm and has a
circumareolar scar which measures 4 cm in length. The nipple is mobile and everted. A firm area is palpable
underneath the scar. The deep (fascial) margin is inked black, the remaining margins are inked yellow. The axillary
tissue measures 9x5x1.2 cm. Several lymph nodes are palpable within it. One lymph node has been previously
bisected by the surgeon. The lymph nodes range in size from 2.5 to 0.5 cm. They are dissected, proceeding from the
axilla towards the breast. The specimen is serially sectioned at closely spaced intervals. Beneath the previously
described scar is an ill-defined white, firm area which measures approximately 3.8x3.1x3 cm; it abuts the skin and is 3
cm from the deep margin. A second ill-defined white, firm area is present in the outer, lower quadrant approximately 1
cm from the central lesion; it measures approximately 2.5x2.3x1.8 cm and is located 0.5 cm from the deep margin and
1 cm from the superficial margin. At its center is a 1 cm firm area with a gelatinous appearance. The rest of the
specimen is composed of 40% breast tissue, and 60% yellow fatty tissue. Representative sections are submitted in 40
Page 1 of 4
cassettes labeled B1-B40.
Legend:
B1-B3=nipple
B4-B13-white, firm area under scar with superficial/skin margin
B14-B15-deep margin under white, firm area below scar
B16-B17=white, firm area under scar with superficial margin
B18-B20-outer, lower quadrant white, firm area with superficial margin
B21-B25=outer, lower quadrant white, firm area with deep margin
B26=section from center of outer, lower quadrant white, firm area with small gelatinous area
B27 deep margin under white, firm area below scar (additional)
B28 inner, upper quadrant with deep margin
B29-inner, upper quadrant with superficial margin
B30-inner, lower quadrant with superficial margin
B31-inner, lower quadrant with deep margin
B32=outer, upper quadrant with deep margin
B33=outer, upper quadrant with superficial margin
B34-one LN from distal part of axillary tail bisected (level 3)
B35-three other LNs from distal part of axillary tail (level 3)
B36-one LN (the one previously cut by surgeon) in middle part of axillary tail (level 2)
B37-B38=one large LN from middle part of axillary tail (level 2)
B39-B40 LNs from proximal part of axillary tail (level 1)
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
AFS: metastatic carcinoma in lymph node
Performed by: Resident:
Interpreted by: Attending:
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
1.
TYPE OF SPECIMEN: Left modified radical mastectomy
II.
II.
III.
TYPE OF NEOPLASM:
LOCATION OF THE TUMOR: Lower outer quadrant
LOCATION OF THE TUMOR:
Central
Carcinoma, invasive lobular - pleomorphic, nuclear grade 3
Lobular neoplasia, type B (pleomorphic) widespread
IV.
V.
Ill-defined
GROSS/MICRO FINAL INVASIVE TUMOR SIZE INTERPRETATION: 1.2 cm in greatest dimension, at least
BORDERS OF INVASIVE NEOPLASM:
VI.
VASCULAR SPACE INVASION:
Present in lymphatics
VII.
CALCIFICATION: Present in benign areas
VIII.
NIPPLE:
Stroma involved by cancer
Lymphatics involved by cancer
Ducts involved by cancer
IX.
SKIN: Uninvolved by cancer
✗.
ADJACENT BREAST TISSUE: Cystic disease, proliferative with atypia
Page 2 of 4
XI.
SURGICAL MARGIN: No carcinoma is identified on surgical margins
XII.
AXILLARY LYMPH NODES: TOTAL: 13
LEVEL 1: 4
LEVEL II: 2
LEVEL III: 6
SENTINEL NODE: 1
XIII.
POSITIVE LYMPH NODES: TOTAL: 4 of 13
LEVEL 1: 2 of 4
LEVEL II: 1 of 2
LEVEL III:0 of 6
SENTINEL NODE: 1 of 1
DEGREE OF INVOLVEMENT: Extensive replacement
EXTRANODAL EXTENSION: Absent
XIV. PECTORAL MUSCLE: No pectoral muscle identified
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS: Invasive carcinoma appears to arise multifocally. A definite second focus is identified in
the lower outer quadrant (B26). Below the nipple, the fibrous scar tissue contains multiple separate foci of invasive
lobular carcinoma. Extensive lymphatic permeation is noted.
This report has been reviewed electronically and signed on
Interpreted by: Attending:
Case Resident:
The diagnosis was rendered by the attending pathologist.
Receptor Expression Analysis
INTERPRETATION
Date Ordered:
Status: Signed Out
Test Performed on: Left breast
Specimen part: B
Slide#: B26
Results:
More than 50% of the invasive carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an anti-estrogen
receptor antibody.
Therefore, this tumor is considered strongly positive for estrogen receptor expression.
More than 50% of the invasive carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an
anti-progesterone receptor antibody.
Therefore, this tumor is considered strongly positive for progesterone receptor expression.
Her-2/neu expression has been evaluated using the
HercepTest. HercepTest score: 0.
No Her-2/neu overexpression is identified in the invasive carcinoma cells.
Page 3 of 4
This procedure/addenda has been electronically reviewed and signed on
Interpreted by:
Attending:
Addendum
Date Ordered:
Status: Signed Out
ADDENDUM
Molecular Analysis has been ordered on this case, the blocks and slides have been retrieved from the archival files, the
slides and pathology report were re-reviewed for tumor cellularity by the pathologist, and the appropriate block was
selected for testing.
This procedure/addenda has been electronically reviewed and signed on
Interpreted by:
Attending:
Note: Immunochemistry testing performed at
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
⚫. These tests were interpreted in conjunction with external positive and internal negative controls, unless-
FDA. This test is used for clinical purposes only. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
w 12/17/13
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted `
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
No
✓
1
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 12/10/13
