Final Surgical Pathology Report
ICD-0.3
Carcinonia, wothelial 8/20/3
Site Bladder, pirteror wall
0674
الله
4/12/13
UUID:DDA3DBFA-0ECA-4D47-8E8D-5C33F6E4D448
TCGA-BL-ASZZ-
01A-PR
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Ureteral margin, right, excision:
Negative for tumor.
B.. Ureteral margin, left, excision:
Negative for tumor.
C. Bladder, excision:
Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma (see tumor characteristics in
the microscopic description).
D. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
E.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
Microscopic Description:
Histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma
Histologic grade: High grade
Tumor size: 4 cm
Primary tumor (PT): Tumor invades into the vaginal wall, pT4a.
Margins of resection: The distal urethral margin shows high-grade
papillary urothelial carcinoma with no invasion. The ureteral margins
are negative. The outer soft tissue margins of the specimen are
negative.
Vascular invasion: Present
Regional lymph nodes (pN): ΕΝΟ
Distant metastasis (pM): PMX
Other findings: Other areas of urothelial atypia with severe atypia and
focal papillary urothelial carcinoma are present.
The tumor shows extensive necrosis. Immunohistochemical stains with
the neural markers synaptophysin, chromogranin and CD 56 are performed.
The synaptophysin and chromogranin are negative. CD 56 is focally
positive suggestive of focal neuroendocrine differentiation within the
tumor.
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
Specimen
A Right ureteral margin
B. Left ureteral margin
Bladder
C.
D.
Left pelvic node
E. Right pelvic node
Clinical Information
Bladder cancer
Redacted
Intraoperative Consultation
A) Ureteral margin, right, excision:
B) Ureteral margin, left, excision:
Negative for tumor.
Negative for tumor.
Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "right ureteral margin" is a stapled tissue
specimen that measures 1.2 cm in diameter and 0.3 cm in wall thickness.
AFS1
The tissue is cut away from the staple and entirely frozen.
B. Received fresh labeled "left ureteral margin" is doughnut shaped
specimen that measures 0.3 × 0.3 x 0.2 cm in dimension. Entirely
frozen.
C. Received fresh labeled "bladder" is a 6.5 x 6.5 x 4.8 cm symmetrical
bladder with attached 2.5 cm urethra, a copious amount of pericystic
The
adipose tissue and bilateral ureters averaging 2.5 cm in length.
A 4.5 x 3.5
ureters and urethra are probe patent to the bladder lumen.
cm portion of wrinkled tan-pink vaginal mucosa is present along the
posterior aspect. The right half of the specimen is inked blue and the
left half is inked black. On opening, there is a 4.0 x 3.8 cm
papilliferous, twisting tan-white to chalky yellow-white tumor mass
occupying the right lateral posterior wall. The tumor surrounds the
ureteral orifice. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of
2.5 cm, grossly extending to within 0.4 cm of the inked surface of the
specimen. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are
submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The tumor involving the
The
posterior wall extends to within uro-0.2 cm of the vaginal mucosa.
remaining bladder mucosa is glistening tan-pink to tan-red with normal
folds and the wall averages 0.9 cm in thickness. An area of tan-red
edematous mucosa is noted just superior to the tumor along the
posterior wall. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is noted.
Summary: 1 - urethral margin en face, 2- right ureteral orifice, 3 -
left ureteral orifice, 4 and 5 - right lateral wall, 6 through 8
tumor to posterior vaginal mucosa, 9 - bladder to urethra, 10 - left
lateral wall including area of edema, 11 - Dome/posterior wall, 12 -
anterior wall
་་
D. Received fresh labeled left pelvic node" is a 5.5 x 4.3 x 2.0 cm
portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. Two rubbery
tan-pink-gold tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 5.4
cm in greatest dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are
entirely submitted.
-
Summary: 1 - 1 bisected lymph node, 2 through 4 largest lymph node
E. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic node" is a 4.9 x 3.4 x 1.0 cm
portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. Two slightly
rubbery tan-pink-gold tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up
to 3.5 cm are recovered.
Summary: 1 - 1 bisected lymph node, 2 and 3 - bisected larger lymph
node
Yes
No
Criteria
10 3/15/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tun.or Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History Melanome
Dual/Synchronous, Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
☑
7
