UUID:D6831C2D-C567-4649-9C51-75E1B202D8F9
TCGA-BL-A3JM-01A-PR
Redacted
Date Coll:
SPECIMEN
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
A. Left distal ureter
B. Right distal ureter
C.
Bladder prostate
D.
Urethral margin
E.
Right pelvic lymph node
F.
G.
Left pelvic lymph node
Appendix
CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Bladder cancer.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Benign.
B. Benign.
DFS: Urethral margin, biopsy
-
/CD-0-3
carcinoma, wrothelial, No.s 8/20/3
Site: bladder NOS
0679
No dysplasia or malignancy.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
A.
Received fresh in a container labeled "left distal
ureter" is a portion of tan-white tubular tissue with
minimal surrounding adipose tissue, 0.6 cm in diameter and 0.3 cm
long. This is entirely sent for frozen section in one block.
B. Received fresh in a container labeled "Right distal
ureter" is a portion of tan-white tissue with surrounding
yellow adipose tissue, 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely submitted
for frozen section in one block.
C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled
"bladder and prostate" is a bladder and prostate. The
specimen has a total weight of 358 grams and overall dimension of
10.5 x 10.5 x 4.0 cm. The prostate is 4.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm. and the
bladder is 6.0 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm. The prostate area is heavily stapled.
Vasa deferentia average 9.0 x 0.5 cm. The left ureter is 4.0 x 0.5
cm. and the right ureter is 4.5 x 0.5 cm. The bladder has a pink
tan smooth glistening wrinkled mucosa There is a 1.3 x 1.3 cm.
ulceration in the right wall, 1.7 cm. from the trigone and 5.0 cm.
from the prostatic urethral margin. The cut surface of this area is
firm, yellow, and rubbery, with possible scarring and possible
tumor, which is 0.6 cm. in greatest dimension and comes within 1.2
cm. of the closest surgical margin which is inked blue. The
remainder of the mucosa is pink tan smooth glistening, showing no
other discrete gross lesions. Both ureteral orifices are probe
patent. No lymph nodes are identified in the surrounding fatty
tissue. The right half of the prostate is inked blue and the left
half inked black. The cut surface of the prostate is pink tan and
nodular, showing no other discrete lesions. Representative sections
of the specimen are submitted as follows:
-
prostatic
Block 1 - prostatic urethral margin en face; block 2
urethra and posterior aspect of prostate; block 3 - trigone to
prostate; block 4 representative anterior bladder; block 5 -
representative dome of bladder; block 6 - representative posterior
bladder wall; block 7 - right side ureteral margin, vas deferens
لسار
12/8/11
margin and seminal vesicle; block 8 - left side vas deferens margin,
left ureteral margin and seminal vesicle; block 9 - left side.
bladder with ureteral orifice; block 10 - right side bladder with
ureteral orifice and portion of ulceration; block 11,12 - full
thickness composite with ulceration and possible tumor; blocks 13,14
full thickness composite with ulceration and tumor; block 15 -
full thickness ulceration; blocks 16-18 - additional representative
sections; 19 - full thickness ulceration; block 20-21 - prostate,
full thickness composite; block 22-23 - prostate, mid to posterior
aspect composite; blocks 24-25 prostate, mid to posterior aspect
composite (21 through 25 are of prostate, from apex to base).
-
D. Received is a container labeled with the patient's
name, medical record number and "urethral margin". The
specimen consists of two fragments of pink-tan tissue measuring 1 x
0.8 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. AS
E. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"right pelvic lymph node" is a 5.5 x 3.5 x 1.2 cm.
aggregate of yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which may contain
possible lymphoid tissue present. Lymph nodes range from 0.3 cm. to
3.0 cm. in greatest dimension. The tissue fragments are entirely
submitted in four cassettes. AS4.
F. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"left pelvic node" is a 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. aggregate of
yellow pink lobular fatty tissue which may contain possible lymphoid
The tissue fragments may contain lymphoid tissue and are
tissue.
entirely submitted in four cassettes. AS4.
G. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"appendix" is a grossly unremarkable appendix which is 10.0
x 0.7 cm. The serosa is pink tan smooth glistening partially
covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. No fibrinous exudate,
hemorrhage or necrosis is grossly identified. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette with the
proximal end inked. RS1. (proximal end inked)
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma.
Histologic grade: High-grade.
Associated epithelial lesions: Carcinoma in-situ.
Primary tumor (PT): pT3 (Carcinoma invades through the muscularis
propria and into the perivesicular fibroadipose tissue).
Margins of resection: Negative
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Four negative right pelvic lymph nodes (0/4).
Four negative left pelvic lymph nodes (0/4).
Vascular invasion: Present (slide C19).
Direct extension of invasive tumor:
Other findings:
Not identified.
Prostate uninvolved by carcinoma (nodular
hyperplasia); unremarkable appendix.
5, 4×2, 3×3, 1, 14x3
DIAGNOSIS
A. Ureter, left distal margin, excision:
Negative for malignancy or dysplasia.
B. Ureter, right distal margin, excision:
Negative for malignancy or dysplasia.
C. Bladder and prostate, radical cystectomy and prostatectomy:
High-grade urothelial carcinoma, with invasion through the
muscularis propria into the perivesicular fat and soft tissue.
Angiolymphatic invasion identified.
Prostate uninvolved by carcinoma.
Negative margins of excision.
D. Urethral margin, biopsy:
Negative for malignancy or dysplasia.
E. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excisional biopsy:
Four negative lymph nodes (0/4).
F. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional resection:
Four negative lymph nodes (0/4).
G. Appendix, incidental appendectomy:
No specific pathologic abnormality.
MD (Electronic Signature)
End Of Report
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALITIED
Tw: 2/8/11
