Final Surgical Pathology Report
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, duelar
infiltrating 8520/3
Site: 
Yes $50.9
"①Bast upper
outer
quadrant
IN 4/12/13
سه
C504
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Lymph nodes, left axillary sentinel, excision
Metastatic carcinoma in two of two (2/2) lymph nodes in this part.
B. Breast, right, excision -
Invasive lobular carcinoma, 0.5 cm in greatest dimension (see
microscopic description, including for prognostic marker results).
Lobular carcinoma-in-situ.
Fibrocystic changes, with microcalcifications present.
Skin, nipple, and deep margin negative for tumor.
C. Breast, left, excision -
Invasive lobular carcinoma, forming a 3.2 cm in greatest dimension
mass, with additional scattered foci of invasive lobular carcinoma
present.
Invasive lobular carcinoma present at least very near (<1 mm from), and
possibly at, the deep margin in the separate foci.
Skin and nipple negative for malignancy.
Lobular carcinoma-in-situ.
Biopsy site changes.
Fibrocystic changes, with microcalcifications present.
D.
Lymph nodes, left axillary, excision
-
Metastatic carcinoma in nineteen of twenty-two (19/22) lymph nodes in
this part, including with metastatic carcinoma in the superior-most
lymph node.
Microscopic Description:
A, D. There is metastatic carcinoma in two of two (2/2) sentinel lymph
nodes in part A, and in nineteen of twenty-two (19/22) lymph nodes in
part D.
Thus overall in this case, there is metastatic carcinoma in
twenty-one of twenty-four (21/24) lymph nodes (pN3a). There is
extracapsular extension. The largest involved lymph node is one of the
sentinel lymph nodes, 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The largest lymph
node in part D is negative for tumor. There is metastatic carcinoma in
the 
superior-most lymph node in part D. Please note that in addition
to examining H&E stained sections, immunostains with antibodies to
keratin (AE1-AE3) were examined on representative blocks in both parts
to aid in 
assessment.
B. The following template summarizes the findings in this part:
Invasive carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Invasive lobular carcinoma, identified
incidentally in block B4
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 2
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): slightly >0.5 cm (pTlb)
Specimen margins: Negative
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Nipple: Negative for tumor
Invasion of skin or chest wall: Not identified
UUID:A8834D03-81F5-43BC-A4AB-F215C89CB095
TCGA-A7-A5ZX-01A-PR
Redacted
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified
Description of non-tumorous' breast: Fibrocystic changes, with
microcalcifications present
Comments: There is also lobular carcinoma-in-situ present.
Please note
that immunostains with antibodies to p63, keratin (AE1-AE3), and
e-cadherin were examined on representative blocks to aid in assessment.
Distant metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Breast prognostic marker results
Results
Estrogen receptor: 80% / moderate intensity
Progesterone receptor: 5% / weak intensity
Her2 by IHC: 1+
Interpretation
Estrogen receptor: Positive
Progesterone receptor: Weakly positive
Her2 by IHC: Negative for Her2 expression
Comments
Fixation time: 30:00
Cold ischemia time: 0:30
The analyzed tissue met quality requirements of the ASCO/CAP guidelines
for Her2 testing. Control materials stained appropriately.
Based on data collected in our laboratory and reported in the
literature we recommend FISH analysis for Her2 in cases that stain with
intermediate intensity by immunohistochemistry.
Prognostic markers were done by immunohistochemical stain on paraffin
sections from 10% neutral buffered formalin fixed tissue using
antibodies on a Benchmark automated stainer.
The Her2 antibody is clone 4B5 and has been approved by the FDA as an
aid in the assessment of breast cancer patients for whom Herceptin
treatment is considered.
This laboratory meets the test validation and quality assurance
requirements of the ASCO/CAP guidelines for Her2, ER and PR testing for
carcinoma of the breast
1
C. The following template summarizes the findings in this part:
Invasive carcinoma: Present
Invasive lobular
Histologic type: Invasive lobular carcinoma.
carcinoma is identified comprising the main mass lesion, as well as in
multiple additional foci in random sections of this breast (blocks C7,
C8, C10, C11).
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 2
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): The main mass lesion is 3.2 cm in
greatest dimension (pT2)
Specimen margins: Although the margins surrounding the main mass
lesion are negative, tumor in the additional foci of invasive lobular
carcinoma is present at least very near (<1 mm from), and possibly at,
the deep margin, with fragmentation hindering assessment.
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Nipple: Negative for tumor
Invasion of skin or chest wall: Not identified
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified
Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes, with
microcalcifications present. Biopsy site changes.
Comments: There is also lobular carcinoma-in-situ present. Please note
that immunostains with antibodies to keratin (AE1-AE3), and e-cadherin
were examined on representative blocks to aid in assessment.
Distant metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Prognostic markers: Previously performed
Note:
have reviewed this case.
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature.
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
They have not
Specimen
A.
Left axillary sentinel node
B. Right breast
C.
Left breast
D. Left axillary contents
Clinical Information
CLINICAL HISTORY:
breast
yo white female with invasive lobular cancer left
Intraoperative Consultation
A. Metastatic carcinoma present.
Gross Description
A.
Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary sentinel node"
is a portion of tissue which is tan-yellow and fatty externally. On
palpation, it appears to consist of two adherent lymph nodes, spanning
an area 2.5 x 1 x 0.5 cm and 1.8 x 1 x 0.4 cm. On cut surface, both
vary from soft and tan to yellow, to firmer and tan-white. The
specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section in two blocks, with
one lymph node per block.
received at
placed in
B. Received fresh (excised at
formalin at
in a container labeled "right breast" is a 21 cm from
superior to inferior x 18 cm from medial to lateral x 3.2 cm from
anterior to posterior soft tan-yellow mastectomy specimen, with an
orienting suture present. On the anterior surface there is a 7.6 x 4.4
cm tan-white skin ellipse, with a centrally located 1.3 x 1.3 x 1 cm
nipple. The intact deep margin is inked, and the specimen is serially
sectioned. On cut surface, the specimen consists of interspersed
yellow adipose tissue and tan tissue, without focal lesion. RS-10,
following fixation.
upper inner
BLOCK SUMMARY: B1, B2 upper outer quadrant; B3, B4
quadrant; B5, B6 - lower inner quadrant; B7, B8 - lower outer quadrant;
B9 
central breast; B10 - nipple.
received at
placed in
C. Received fresh (excised at
formalin at
in a container labeled "left breast" is a 20.5 cm
from superior to inferior × 18.8 cm from medial to lateral x 3.2 cm
from anterior to posterior soft tan-yellow mastectomy specimen, with an
orienting suture present. On the anterior surface there is a 7 x 5 cm
tan-white skin ellipse, with a centrally located 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm
nipple. The intact deep margin is inked, and the specimen is serially
sectioned. There is a circumscribed 3.2 x 2.9 x 1.8 cm rubbery
The lesion is 1.1 cm
tan-white mass within the upper outer quadrant.
from the deep margin, and 1.3 cm from the anterior surface, which is
subsequently inked blue. The specimen away from the nodule consists of
interspersed yellow adipose tissue and tan tissue, without 
additional
focal lesion. RS-12, following fixation.
-
BLOCK SUMMARY: C1-C3 tumor to anterior surface; C4, C5
margin; C6 - central tumor; C7 - upper outer quadrant;
inner quadrant; C9 lower inner quadrant
; C10 - 
lower
C11 central breast; C12 - nipple.
C8
tumor to deep
-
upper
outer quadrant;
D. Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary contents" is a
6.5 x 6.3 x 2.4 cm aggregate of yellow lobular fatty tissue which has a
Dissection of the specimen reveals
suture designating superior axilla.
RS-9,
multiple lymph nodes, up to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension.
following fixation, with all lymph nodes submitted, from superior to
inferior, with the superior-most lymph node in block D1, four lymph
nodes in block D2, five lymph nodes in block D3, three lymph nodes in
block D4, one sectioned lymph node in blocks D5 & D6, four lymph nodes.
in block D7, one lymph node in block D8, and three lymph nodes in block
D9.
Bilateral disease.
Criteria
سر
Diagnosis Discrepancy
3/15/13
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous
Case is (circle):
mary Notod
brian
QUALIFIED
Reviewer Initials 11
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
