ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, NOS
050.9
2/18/11
Diagnosis:
A: Posterior margin, left breast, re-excision
- Skeletal muscle and fibroadipose tissue; no carcinoma identified
B: Breast (300 grams), right, total mastectomy
- Focal atypical ductal hyperplasia (slide B5)
- Apocrine metaplasia
- Microcalcifications present in association with benign breast ducts and
lobules
- Skin with seborrheic keratoses
- No invasive or in situ carcinoma identified
C: Breast, left, modified radical mastectomy
Tumor type: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma with micropapillary features (two
foci)
Nottingham combined histologic grade: 3
Tubule formation score: 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism Score: 3
Mitotic count score: 3
Focality of tumor: Multifocal (two separate invasive tumor masses in lower
inner quadrant, 1.9 cm apart) with intervening tissue showing lymphatic space
invasion (see comment)
Tumor size (greatest dimension):
Mass #1: 2.5 cm
Mass #2: 1.4 cm
Lymphovascular invasion: Present, extensive
In Situ Component: Present
In Situ Component type/Architecture pattern:
Ductal carcinoma in situ, comedo and solid subtypes
Lobular carcinoma in situ
UUID:D40D0424-E1DA-4AEF-AD00-126038E80218
TCGA-AQ-A04H-01A-PR
Redacted
In Situ Component nuclear grade: High grade (nuclear grade 3)
In Situ Component necrosis: Present
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Inials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
In Situ Component extent/size: In situ carcinoma comprises less than 10% of
total tumor volume and is present in association with both masses as well as
tw
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
5/27/11
being present in tissue between the masses
Extensive intraductal component: Not identified
Nipple involvement: Not identified
Skin involvement: Not identified
Margin status:
Invasive component: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma is less than 1 mm from
the deep specimen margin (see comment)
In Situ component: Ductal carcinoma in situ is 3 mm from the deep specimen
margin
Axillary lymph nodes:
Total number with metastasis: 4
Total number examined: 15
Size of largest metastasis: 9mm
Extracapsular extension: not identified
Microcalcifications: not identified
Other findings:
Biopsy site changes in Mass #1
Fibroadenomatous change
Skin with seborrheic keratosis
AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE:
pT2 pN2a pMx
Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the
time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.
Comment:
Two foci of infiltrating ductal carcinoma are present, both in the lower inner
quadrant. Grossly, these masses were separated by 1.9 cm of soft fibroadipose
tissue. Histologically, the intervening tissue shows ductal carcinoma in situ
and carcinoma present within lymphatic spaces. The smaller tumor is less than 1
mm from the posterior specimen margin in the mastectomy specimen; however, it is
possible that this margin is superseded by the separately submitted ' posterior
margin' (part A).
The morphology of the invasive carcinoma from the two masses is similar, as is
the morphology of the in situ carcinoma admixed with each mass. These two
masses may represent two separate foci of invasion arising from ductal carcinoma
in situ or may be arising from a focus of lymphovascular invasion (i.e., an
intramammary metastasis). The tumor stage is based on the larger of the two
masses.
Immunohistochemical studies for estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and
HER-2/neu were performed on the biopsy specimen from the larger of the two
masses. Immunohistochemical analysis of the smaller tumor mass will be performed and
the results will be reported in an addendum.
Gross Description:
Specimen A is received in a formalin-filled container labeled "left re-excision
posterior margin, tumor clip posterior" and is a partially oriented 2.6 x 1.8 x
1.0 cm fragment of mainly brown/red muscle with some minimal adherent
fibroadipose tissue. There is a clip on one surface indicating the margin. This
surface is inked blue. The remainder of the specimen is inked black.
Sectioning exhibits unremarkable red/brown muscle with minimal fibroadipose
tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in blocks Al
and A2
Specimen B is received in a formalin-filled container labeled "right total
mastectomy, stitch marks axillary tail".
Specimen fixation:
Formalin
Time in fixative:
7 hours
Type of mastectomy:
Size of specimen:
Orientation of specimen:
Total, per the specimen container and requisition
300 grams, 19 x 15.5 x 3.0 cm
There is a stitch marking axillary tail. At
the time of tissue procurement triage, the specimen is inked as follows:
anterior/green, posterior/purple, axillary tail (lateral)/yellow.
Skin ellipse dimensions: 18.5 x 4.2 cm. The lightly pigmented skin
ellipse is remarkable for multiple brown papules from 2 to 13 mm in greatest
dimension. Just superior lateral to the nipple, there is a 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm
raised flesh colored papule identified. The remainder of the papules are
somewhat flatter and some are macules.
Nipple/areola:
Axillary tail:
1.5 cm / 2.7 cm.
Axillary tail is not well-delineated. The lateral
breast tissue is sectioned and no lymph node candidates are identified.
Biopsy site:
N/A
Residual tumor:
N/A
Location of tumor:
N/A
Distance of mass/biopsy site from surgical margin:
N/A
Gross involvement of skin or fascia/muscle by tumor:
Description of remainder of breast:
N/A
The entire specimen
consists of yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue separated by thin fibrous
septae. There is scattered dense white breast tissue throughout the entire
specimen. There are no abnormalities readily appreciated.
Other remarkable features:
Tissue submitted for special investigations:
tissue procurement.
Digital photograph taken:
Block Summary:
B1 - Nipple
B2
-
None
Normal given to
Section from largest raised papule (larger section), smaller section
through smaller papule
B3-B4 - Inner upper quadrant
-
B5-B6 - Inner lower quadrant
B7-B8 - Outer upper quadrant
- Outer lower quadrant
B9-B10
B11-B12
B13-B14
Specimen C:
- Central mastectomy
- Lateral breast tissue
Specimen fixation:
Time in fixative:
Type of mastectomy:
Size of specimen:
Orientation of specimen:
Skin ellipse dimensions:
Formalin
7 hours
Modified radical per the specimen requisition
400 grams, 19 x 15 x 3.0 cm
19 x 5.0 cm. The lightly pigmented skin
ellipse is remarkable for scattered light brown to medium brown papules from 3
mm to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension.
Nipple/areola:
unremarkable.
Axillary tail:
1.5 cm / 3.5 cm. These structures are
Axillary tail is 8 x 6.5 x 1.8 cm. The
axillary tail is amputated and palpated for lymph node candidates. Multiple
lymph node candidates are identified from 4 x 4 x 3 mm to 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm.
Biopsy site:
Residual tumor:
N/A
Present. There are two lesions identified. The
first lesion is 2.5 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm. This lesion is well-circumscribed and has a
tan/red, focally hemorrhagic cut surface. This lesion is found within a
background of dense white breast tissue. There is a second 1.4 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm
mass identified. This mass is also well-circumscribed and has a firm red/white
cut surface.
These masses are 1.9 cm from one another. Mass #1 is slightly inferior to the
nipple in the subareolar region. Mass #2 is inferior and posterior to mass #1.
Location of tumor:
quadrant.
See above. Both masses are found in the inner lower
Mass #1 2.4 cm to
Distance of mass/biopsy site from surgical margin:
the deep purple inked margin, 5 mm to the skin, 4.1 cm to the inferior margin,
approximately 6 cm to the medial margin, approximately 8 cm to the superior
margin and distal to the lateral margin. Mass #2 is very close to the purple
inked posterior margin, is approximately 3 cm to the inferior margin, at least
10 cm to the superior margin, approximately 5.6 cm to the medial margin and
distant to the lateral margin. Mass #2 is 3.4 cm to the green inked anterior
margin.
Gross involvement of skin or fascia/muscle by tumor:
Description of remainder of breast:
N/A
The remainder of the
mastectomy specimen consists of yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue separated
by thin fibrous septae. There is dense firm white breast tissue scattered
throughout the entire specimen.
Other remarkable features:
Tissue submitted for special investigations:
given to tissue procurement.
None
Tumor and normal
Digital photograph taken:
Block Summary:
C1
C2
C3
- Nipple
- Representative sections of epidermal papules
- Section from edge of mass #1 (larger) and mass #2 (smaller mass); and
the section mass #2 is abutting purple ink and mass #1 is cut through.
C4 Additional medial mass #2
C5
C6
C7
-
- Additional lateral mass #2
- Additional fibroadipose tissue between masses
- Inferior margin closest to both masses, en face
C8-C9 · Mass #1 and skin, slice bisected
C10 - Mass #1 and adjacent breast tissue (purple ink does not denote true
margin)
C11 - Additional mass #1 and adjacent breast tissue (purple ink does not
denote true margin)
C12
C13
C14
C15
- Deep margin closest to mass #1, en face
- Inner upper quadrant
- Inner lower quadrant
-
- Outer upper quadrant
C16 - Outer lower quadrant
C17
C18
C19
C20
C21
C22
C23
C24
C25
C26
C27
- Three lymph node candidates
- One lymph node candidate, trisected (suspicious)
- One lymph node candidate, trisected
-
- Largest lymph node candidate, sectioned
-
- One lymph node candidate, trisected
-
One lymph node candidate, bisected
One lymph node candidate, sectioned
One lymph node candidate, sectioned
- One lymph node candidate, sectioned
Multiple suspected lymph nodes
- One lymph node, serially sectioned
Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum
Addendum
The following addendum is issued to report the results of estrogen receptor,
progesterone receptor, and HER2/neu immunohistochemical studies.
Results:
Estrogen receptor (Ventana, clone SP1):
Interpretation: POSITIVE
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 97%
Progesterone receptor (Ventana, clone 1E2):
Interpretation: POSITIVE
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 27%
HER2/neu (
clone 4B5, FDA-approved):
Interpretation: INDETERMINATE
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 2+ (see comment)
Site: Left breast
Performed on block: C3
Fixation: 10% neutral buffered formalin
Fixation time: 6-48 hours
Reference range:
Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor: <1%=NEGATIVE, 1-10% WEAK
POSITIVE,
>10% POSITIVE
HER2/neu: 0,1=NEGATIVE FOR OVEREXPRESSION, 2=INDETERMINATE,
3=POSITIVE FOR
OVEREXPRESSION
Comment:
The quantitative scores reported above were obtained using the FDA-approved
The control slides for this case show
appropriate staining.
The patient's larger tumor was sampled and tested previously, which showed a similar
pattern of immunohistochemical staining for HER-2/neu. Subsequent in situ
hybridization studies for HER-2/neu gene amplification on that specimen showed that the
tumor was positive for Her-2/neu gene amplification. In situ hybridization studies can be
repeated on the current specimen, if clinically desired.
Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as
analyte specific reagents (ASR) or research use only (RUO) reagents. These were
developed and have performance characteristics determined by the
These reagents have not
been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests
are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.
