UUID:FOE3A01E-2843-4BE1-BAE5-85340943A422
TCGA-FD-A3B3-01A-PR
Redacted
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A.
B.
C.
Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Four lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/4).
Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Four lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/4).
Bladder; cystectomy:
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Cases circle):
Reviewer AI
Papillary urothelial carcinoma, high grade, with squamous
differentiation,
transmurally invasive into perivesical adipose tissue.
Yes
No
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed.
10/21/11
- Multifocal urothelial carcinoma in-situ (flat urothelial carcinoma).
No lymphovascular invasion present.
Margins of resection (soft tissue, urethra, right and left ureter), no
tumor present.
D.
E.
-
Urinary bladder mucosa with ulceration, necrosis, inflammation and
multinucleated giant cell reaction consistent with previous biopsy site.
See pathologic parameters.
Ovaries; oophorectomy:
-
Ovaries with no significant pathology.
Fallopian tubes with paratubal cysts.
Right ureter segment%; excision:
-
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Papillary and flat urothelial carcinoma
Grade of tumor: High grade
1234
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Depth of invasion: Perivesical adipose tissue
Tumor distribution: Multifocal, 3.8 x 2.2 cm
Left lateral wall
Right lateral wall
Trigone
Anterior wall
Ureteral margins: Negative
Distal urethral margin: Negative
Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative
ICD-0-3
10/25/1
carcinoma, papillary wrothelial
8130/3
067.9
Path: Site: bladder, NOS
CQCF bladder, trigone C67.0.
8. Lymph nodes: Eight lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/8)
9. PTNM: pT3NOMX
h
10/21/11
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XXX
[ ], M.D
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist.
Electronically signed out by [] M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is a -year-old female with bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy
Page 1
and ileal conduit.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph nodes
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes
C: Bladder
D: Ovaries
E: Right ureter segment
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in five containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple soft tissue fragments
aggregating to a total of 6.5 × 3 × 1 cm. Multiple lymph node candidates are
dissected from the specimen ranging in size from 0.9 cm to 5.5 cm in longest
dimension. The lymph node candidates are submitted as follows:
A1: 2 possible lymph node candidates
A2: One lymph node, serially sectioned
A3-A4: one lymph node, serially sectioned
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple fibrofatty soft
tissue fragments aggregating to a total of 6 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm. Multiple lymph node
candidates are dissected from the specimen ranging in size from 0.9 cm to 2 cm
and submitted as follows:
B1: One lymph node candidate, bisected
B2: One lymph node, entire
B3: 2 possible lymph node candidates, entire
B4: One lymph node, serially sectioned
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "bladder". Received fresh
and place in formalin is a 167.1 g cystectomy specimen with overall measurements
of 15 x 13.3 x 2.8 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 3.5 cm in length and
0.4 cm in diameter, and the left measures 1 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter.
Both ureters demonstrate intact patent lumens. The serosal surface shows yellow
lobulated fibroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact. The urethral margin
is inked black, and the bladder is inked blue on the right side and black on the
left side. The specimen is opened anteriorly to reveal a 3.8 x 2.2 cm
ulcerated, necrotic mass on the right lateral wall and trigone. In addition
there is a 1.5 x 0.9 cm, superficial ulcerated lesion near the left trigone
measuring 1.5 cm from the distal urethral margin. On cut section, the larger
mass infiltrates into the muscularis propria to a depth of 1.1 cm and is 0.9 cm
from the deep margin. The surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, pink-tan
with a uniform 1.0 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral orifices, adjacent to
the trigone, are identified and probe patent.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
c1:
C2:
C3:
Distal urethral margin
Right and left ureter resection margins (right inked blue)
Left lateral wall tumor, at maximum depth
C4-C8: Additional sections of the ulcerative tumor
C11:
C9-C10: Ulcerated lesion on the right side near the trigone
Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome_
Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
C12:
C13:
Uninvolved bladder mucosa, right lateral wall
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "ovaries". Received
fresh and placed in formalin are unoriented, bilateral adnexal structures. One
adnexa consists of a 4.1 cm long and 0.9 cm diameter fimbriated fallopian tube.
The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen is serially sectioned
Page 2
revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.3 cm wall thickness. The attached white-tan,
cribriform ovary measures 3 x 2.5 x 1 cm and is sectioned to revealed white and
grossly unremarkable ovarian parenchyma. An occasional, yellowish firm nodule is
palpable in the peritubal region. The other adnexa consist of a 3 cm long and
0.5cm diameter fimbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening.
The specimen is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.3 cm wall
thickness. The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2.5 × 2 × 1 cm and
is sectioned to reveal fibrotic ovarian parenchyma. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:
D1: First fallopian tube and ovary
D2: Yellowish nodules near the first adnexa
D3: Opposite fallopian tube and ovary
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "right ureter segment".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a segment of ureter measuring 0.9 cm in
length and 0.5 cm in diameter. There is a suture designating the non-margin
site. This side is inked blue. Opposite margin is inked green. The specimen is
submitted entirely with the margin embedded en face in E1 .
XX
☑☐
[ ]
Page 3
