Gender:
Female
Race: White
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes:
B.
C.
-
UUID:1FC2AC75-8248-4284-82C6-D664FA8DEBOA
TCGA-FD-A5BZ-01A-PR
Fourteen lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/14).
Right pelvic lymph node:
-
Fifteen lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/15).
Bladder:
Urothelial carcinoma, invasive, high grade, with focal squamous
differentiation.
D.
E.
-
Redacted
<10% pw755
One lymph node with microscopic focus of urothelial carcinoma (1/1).
Uterus bilateral tubes and ovaries:
-
-
Atrophic endometrium.
Myometrium with three (3) leiomyomas (largest posterior wall, 1.0 cm).
Atrophic ovaries and unremarkable fallopian tubes.
Right distal ureter tip:
Ureter, no evidence of tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Flat urothelial carcinoma
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, Urothelial Nos
8120/3
2.
Grade of tumor: High grade
3.
4.
Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue
Tumor distribution:
5.
7.
Lymph nodes: Negative (1/30)
8.
Multifocal, 3.2 x 1.8 largest size
Anterior wall
Ureteral Margins: Negative
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
pTNM: pT3a, N1, MX
Site: Bladder, Anterior
0673
JN 12/24/12
XXX
[ ] M.D.
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident or Fellow.
Electronically signed out by [], M.D.
clinical History:
The patient is a
year old female with bladder cancer who undergoes radical
cystectomy with ileal conduit.
Specimens Received:
A: Left pelvic lymph nodes
B: Right pelvic lymph node
C: Bladder
D: Uterus bilateral tubes and ovaries
E: Right distal ureter tip
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in five containers each labeled with the patient' s
name and medical record number.
Page 1
A. Container A is further designated as 31. Left pelvic lymph nodes.4
fresh and placed in formalin is an 8 x 5.2 x 1.9 cm aggregate of yellow,
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for putative lymph nodes.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Block Summary:
A1:
five putative lymph nodes
A2: two putative lymph nodes, bisected (one inked black)
A3:
two putative lymph nodes, bisected (one inked black)
A4-A6: one putative lymph node, trisected, in each cassette
A7:
one putative lymph node, bisected
A8-A11: one putative lymph node in four pieces
A12-A14: one putative in three pieces
Received
B. Container B is further designated as 32. Right pelvic lymph nodes.4
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6 x 6 x 1.2 cm aggregate of yellow,
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for putative lymph nodes.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1-B2: four lymph nodes, each cassette
B3 B4: two lymph nodes, bisected each cassette (one inked black)
B5: one lymph node, trisected in multiple sections
B6-B8: one lymph node, trisected
C. Container C is further designated as 33. bladder. 4 Received fresh and placed
in formalin is a 191 gram, 15.5 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm cystectomy specimen with attached
mesenteric fat. The bladder proper measures 7.5 x 7.5 x 4 cm, with a 3 x 2.2 cm
urethra. The right ureter measures 4.3 × 0.5 cm and the left ureter measures 4 x
0.5 cm. The external surface of the bladder is inked in black and the bladder is
opened along the lateral wall to reveal an ulcerated lesion on the anterior wall
measuring 3.2 x 1.8 cm. In addition, there is a 2.5 x 1.3 cm transmural defect
in the anterior wall at the level of trigone. The ulcerated lesion consists of
glistening, brown finely nodular and friable tissue. The remaining bladder
mucosa is unremarkable, glistening, pink-tan with normal mucosal folds. Serial
sectioning reveals tumor invasion to a depth of 1.0 cm, extending to 0.3 cm from
the inked margin. Gross photographs are taken, representative sections are
submitted as follows:
C1:
urethral margin
C2: right ureter margin
C3:
left ureter margin
C4-C7: multiple representative sections through the tumor including closest
extent to black, inked margin
C8:
C9:
C10:
c11:
C12:
representative section of grossly uninvolved anterior wall
representative uninvolved section of posterior wall
representative sections of uninvolved right and left bladder wall
representative section of bladder dome
representative section of trigone
C13: two putative lymph nodes
C14: right ureter margin
C15: left ureter margin
D. Container D is further designated as 34. Uterus bilateral tubes and
ovaries.4 Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 40 gram supracervical
hysterectomy specimen consisting of a uterus with bilateral attached tubes and
ovaries. The uterus measures 4 cm from cornu to cornu, 3.5 cm from fundus to
lower uterine segment and 2 cm from anterior to posterior. The cauterized
resection margin measures 2.5 x 1.2 cm. The left tube measures 5 x 0.5 cm and
the left ovary measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The right tube measures 7 × 0.5 cm
and the right ovary measures 2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The uterine serosa is glistening,
pink-tan without nodules, however on the anterior and posterior aspect of the
uterus there are 1 cm linear serosal defects consistent with surgical
manipulation. The posterior aspect of the uterine serosa is inked in black and
Page 2
the specimen is opened to reveal a triangular shaped endometrial cavity
measuring 2.5 x 1 cm with a thickness of 0.1 cm. The uterine myometrium measures
up to 0.9 cm thick and is trabeculated pink-tan. The uterus is serially
sectioned revealing a subserosal posterior wall firm, white nodule measuring 1
cm in greatest dimension and an intramuscular anterior wall firm, white nodule
measuring 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. Both nodules are devoid of hemorrhage or
necrosis. The left ovary has a glistening, pink-white surface. It is sectioned
to reveal homogeneous, pink-white cut surface. The tube is serially sectioned
revealing a pinpoint lumen and wall thickness of 0.1 cm. The surface of the
right ovary is glistening, pink-white. It is serially sectioned to reveal a
homogeneous pink-white cut surface. The tube serosa is glistening, pink-gray
and the tube is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint Tumen and a 0.1 cm wall
thickness. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
01:
D2:
D3:
D4:
D5:
D6:
D7:
D8:
D9:
representative posterior endomyometrium
representative posterior endomyometrium including nodule
representative anterior endomyometrium including nodule
representative left ovary
representative left tube including fimbriated end
representative right ovary
representative right tube including fimbriated end
representative posterior wall surgical margin
representative anterior wall surgical margin
E. Container E is further designated as 35. Right distal ureter tip.4 Received
in formalin is a 1.5 cm long × 0.4 cm in diameter piece of tubular tissue with a
scant amount of attached yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. The tubular tissue is
rubbery with a glistening, pink-white surface and is patent at both ends. One
end has a clear, surgical suture.. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing
a pinpoint lumen and a 0.1 cm wall thickness. It is entirely submitted as
follows:
E1: margin designated with suture
E2:
entire remaining specimen
XXX
[ ], M.D. Ph.
Page 3
Criteria
/12/20112
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):/
Reviewer Initia
QUALIFIED
-Date Reviewed:
DISQUAL0
