Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
il
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Location:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
bilateral
A. LEFT BREAST SENTINEL NODE # 1 (COUNT
-
One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1), (see note).
B. RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL NODE # 1, (COUNT
-
One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1), (see note).
C. RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL NODE # 2, (COUNT
One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1), (see note).
D. RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL NODE # 3, (COUNT
One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1), (see note).
E. RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL NODE #4, (COUNT
One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1), (see note).
F.
LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma infiltrating tobulular, Nos 8520/3
2/8/11 no
Site: bread, NOS
050.9
UUID:D92CABBE-8D7E-41E5-8702-9ED07E94E5C4
TCGA-EW-A135-01A-PR
Redacted
INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA, moderately differentiated (see note).
Invasive carcinoma is present at least 0.3 cm from the nearest resection margin (slide F3).
Invasive carcinoma extensively involves the nipple and dermis.
-
-
No in situ carcinoma is identified.
-
No definitive lymphovascular invasion is seen.
-
Microcalcifications are present and associated with normal breast parenchyma.
AJCC staging. PT3 NO (sh) Mx. Please see tumor summary.
Note: The invasive carcinoma measures 4.5 cm by gross measurement. However, based on adjacent sections in slides
F9 through F12 the microscopic measurement of tumor size is estimated as at least 6.1 cm. Receptor studies were
reported previously /
Keratin stains on the lymph nodes will be reported in an addendum
".
G. RIGHT BREAST MASTECTOMY:
-
-
-
-
INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA, moderately differentiated, Nottingham grade 2 (3+3+1), measuring at least 1.1 cm in
greatest dimension (slide G15). Two additional invasive foci each measuring 0.4 cm are found in slides G12 and G17.
No lymphovascular invasion is seen.
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU, high nuclear grade, solid on cribriform type, with central comedo necrosis and
calcifications is present in 10 of 17 blocks (EIC positive), located more than 1.0 cm from nearest margin.
AJCC staging PT1c NO(sh) Mx. See tumor summary.
Note: Hormone receptor studies and keratin stains on the lymph nodes will be reported in an addendum.
H. LEFT BREAST ADDITIONAL SUPERIOR SKIN:
Skin and benign breast parenchyma.
LEFT BREAST ADDITIONAL MEDIAL SKIN:
-
Skin and benign breast parenchyma.
TUMOR SUMMARY
INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST (LEFT):
Specimen: Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)
Specimen Integrity: Multiple designated specimens (eg, main excision and identified margins)
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor
Skin: Invasive carcinoma directly invades into the dermis or epidermis without skin ulceration
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score/Overall Grade= 2 (scores of 6 or 7)
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes (required only if lymph nodes are present in the specimen)
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 1
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 1
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and/or >200 cells):0
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (≤0.2 mm and ≤200 cells): 0
Pathologic Staging (based on information available to the pathologist) (pTNM) (Note M)
pT3: Tumor >50 mm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
Category (PN)
PNO:
Modifier
(sn):
No regional lymph node metastasis identified histologically
Note: Isolated tumor cell (ITC) clusters are defined as small clusters of cells not greater than 0.2 mm or single
tumor cells, or a cluster of fewer than 200 cells in a single histologic cross-section. ITCs may be detected by
routine histology or by immunohistochemical (IHC) methods. Nodes containing only ITCs are excluded from
the total positive node count for purposes of N classification but should be included in the total number of
nodes evaluated.
Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are removed, this modifier
should not be used.
Distant Metastasis (M): Not applicable
:
Ancillary Studles
Estrogen Receptor
Performed on another specimen:
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (≥1%)
Progesterone Receptor
Performed on another specimen:
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%)
HER2 Immunoperoxidase Studies
Performed on another specimen:
Results: Negative (Score 0)
Microcalcifications: Present in non-neoplastic tissue
INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST (RIGHT);
Specimen: Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterality: Right
Tumor Focality: Multiple foci of invasive carcinoma
Number of foci: 3
Sizes of individual foci: 1.1 cm, 0.4 cm, 0.4 cm
Page 2 of 6
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): DCIS is present, EIC positive
Size of (Extent) of DCIS
Number of blocks with DCIS: 10
Number of blocks examined: 17
Architectural Patterns: Comedo, Cribriform, Solid
Nuclear Grade: Grade III (high)
Necrosis: Present, central (expansive "comedo" necrosis)
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ (LCIS): Not identified
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA (no special type or otherwise specified)
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score
Tubules: Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation in size and shape,
occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
Mitotic Count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2 (scores of 6 or 7)
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma and DCIS
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (Neoadjuvant) Therapy: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion:_ Not identified
Lymph Nodes (required only if lymph nodes are present in the specimen)
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 4
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 4
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and/or >200 cells):0
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (≤0.2 mm and ≤200 cells): 0
Extranodal Extension: Not identified
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level and Immunohistochemistry
Pathologic Staging (based on information available to the pathologist) (pTNM) (Note M)
Tumor >10 mm but 20mm in greatest dimension
pT1c:
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
Category (PN)
PNO:
Modifier (sn):
No regional lymph node metastasis identified histologically
Note: Isolated tumor cell (ITC) clusters are defined as small clusters of cells not greater than 0.2 mm or single
tumor cells, or a cluster of fewer than 200 cells in a single histologic cross-section." ITCs may be detected by
routine histology or by immunohistochemical (IHC) methods. Nodes containing only ITCs are excluded from
the total positive node count for purposes of N classification but should be included in the total number of
nodes evaluated.
Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are removed, this
modifier should not be used.
Distant Metastasis (M): Not applicable
Ancillary Studles
Estrogen Receptor: Pending
Progesterone Receptor: Pending
HER2 Immunoperoxidase Studies: Pending
Microcalcifications:
-
Present in DCIS
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASe) validated by our laboratory. There ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS=ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11=EGFR. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Page 3 of 6
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Status: Signed Out
Addendum Diagnosis
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
G.
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
Left Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 1 (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.
Right Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 1 (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.
Right Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 2, (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.
Right Breast sentinel node # 3, (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.
Right Breast sentinel node #4, (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.
-
Right Breast Mastectomy:
;
The tumor cells are positive for ER and HER2/Neu (3+) and negative for PR.
Intraoperative Consultation
A. Sentinel node # 1 count
on left breast, FS: Lymph node, no carcinoma seen.
B. Right breast sentinel node # 2, count
C. Right breast sentinel node # 3, count
D. Right breast sentinel node # 3, count
E. Right breast sentinel node # 4, count
1
FS: Negative for carcinoma.
FS: Negative for carcinoma.
FS: Negative for carcinoma.
FS: Negative for carcinoma.
Clinical History:
Left breast biopsy - invasive lobular carcinoma with direct skin involvement 4.5 cm mass left breast anterior depth central to nipple,
4.5 cm biopsy marking clip in upper outer quadrant (calcification) and one in posterior depth in superior lateral quadrant.
Operation Performed
Bilateral mastectomy with sentinel node biopsy, possible axillary
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
None Provided
Page 4 of 6
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Sentinel node # 1 count
on left breast, FS
B: Right breast sentinel node #2, count
C: Right breast sentinel node #3, count
D: Right breast sentinel node #3, count
E: Right breast sentinel node #4, count.
F: Left breast
G: Right breast
H: Additional superior skin left breast
1: Left breast additional medial skin
Gross Description:
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
FS
1. FS
FS
., FS
Received in formalin are four separate tissues. Submitted for frozen section.
The first is one fragment of rubbery, brown-tan tissue that measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
A1FS.
The second is one fragment of brown-tan rubbery tissue, measuring 2.0 x 1.1 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto cassette
A2FS.
The third is one fragment of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
A3FS.
The fourth is one fragment of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
A4FS.
Received in formalin are two fragments of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm in aggregate.
Submitted in toto in cassette B1FS.
Received in formalin is one fragment of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.9 x 2.9 x 0.3 cm. The tissue is
submitted in toto in cassette C1FS.
Received in formalin is one fragment of brown-tan tissue that measures 2.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
D1FS.
Received in formalin is one fragment of tan-yellow tissue, measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
E1FS.
Received in formalin is a 420 gram left partial mastectomy specimen (17.5 x 15.0 x 5.5 cm) with a white-tan skin ellipse
(12.2 x 7.0 cm). The nipple measures 1.5 cm in 
diameter, the areola measures 3.5 cm in diameter. The specimen
resection margins have previously being inked black
. The specimen has been previously cut. There is a 4.5 x 3.5 
x 2.5
cm irregular firm, grey-tan poorly circumscribed mass 
located centrally in the specimen posterior to the nipple. This mass
lies within 4.0 cm of the deep resection margin, 
0.8 cm of the superior resection margin, 5.5 cm of the lateral resection
margin, 2.0 cm of the medial resection margin and 2.0 
cm from the inferior resection margin. This mass appears to
grossly invade the nipple and skin. The mass also appears 
to contain minute amounts of hemorrhage and necrosis
.
There is a 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm irregular white smoothly 
lobulated mass with a rubbery, firm consistency located 1.5 
cm from
the lateral resection margin and 0.7 cm from the deep 
resection margin. No additional lesions are seen. The remainder
of the breast parenchyma consists of grossly unremarkable 
adipose tissue with dense white fibrous stroma. Sections
submitted as follows:
Medial margin
1
Nipple
2&3
Superior margin with skin
4
Inferior margin with skin
5
Deep margin
6
7&8
9-12
13
14-17
18
19&20
Breast parenchyma adjacent to 4.5 cm mass
Composite section of 4.5 cm mass
Mass with necrosis
Additional sections of 4.5 cm mass
1.5 cm above described mass
Unremarkable breast tissue
Page 5 of 6
G.
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Received in formalin is a 420 gram right simple mastectomy specimen (15.5 x 15.0 x 4.5 cm) with a white-tan skin ellipse
(11.5 x 9.0 cm). The nipple measures 1.7 cm in diameter and the areola 
measures 5.0 cm in diameter. The surgical
resection margins have been previously inked black. The 
specimen has been previously cut. There is a 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0
cm firm, grey-tan mass with areas of calcification and hemorrhage
, located in the upper outer quadrant as well as the
lower outer quadrant. This mass lies within 1 mm of the 
nearest resection margin. No additional lesions are seen. The
remainder of the breast parenchyma is dense-white fibrous stroma with 
unremarkable adipose tissue. Sections submitted
as follows:
Nipple
Skin
Lower outer quadrant
1
3
4
Upper outer quadrant
Lower inner quadrant
6
Upper inner quadrant
7
Deep margin
8-11
Mass with nearest resection margin
Representative sections of mass
H.
12-17
Received in formalin is a fragment of skin with attached adipose tissue, measuring 14.0 x 1.5 cm. The skin is tan-white
and rubbery. No lesions are grossly noted. The specimen is unoriented
. Tissue submitted in toto in two cassettes H1-
H7.
Received in formalin is an unoriented portion of white-tan skin with attached adipose tissue, measuring 6.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm.
No lesions are grossly appreciated. Submitted in toto in two cassettes A1-
A13.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
F
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials 41
Yes
No
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewer
DIQUALIRED
Page 6 of 6
