UUID:9CD8EA72-6DF6-4DD6-9F32-610AB97C9E0D
TCGA-FD-A5BV-01A-PR
Gender: Female
Race: White
Pathology Report:
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, Urothelial NOS
812013
Path Site: Bladder, lateral Wall,
posterior Walland Trigone
0678
CQCF Site: Bladder, Trigone C67.0
70012/24/12
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:
-
Seventeen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/17).
B. Left pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/8).
C. Urinary bladder; robotic-assisted laparoscopic cystectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma invading thru the bladder wall
and into the perivesical tissue, see pathologic parameters.
D. Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries; total
abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
- Uterus with atrophic endometrium, no tumor.
- Bilateral ovaries with age related changes, no tumor.
- Bilateral fallopian tubes, no tumor.
- Cervix, no tumor.
E. Vermiform appendix; appendectomy:
- Appendix, no tumor.
F. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
G. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 6.0 cm, mass at left lateral wall, trigone and
posterior wall with focal extensions to dome and right lateral wall.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/25).
9. pTNM: pT3b,N0,MX.
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD
Electronically Signed Out by [], MD
Clinical History:
Patient is a
year-old female with invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma of
the bladder undergoing robotic assisted laparoscopic cystectomy.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Bladder
D: Uterus, cervix, and fallopian tubes
E: Appendix
F: Left distal ureter
G: Right distal ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in seven containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "1. Right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 17 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5-1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
A1: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A2: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A3: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A4: 5 candidate lymph nodes
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "2. Left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4 x 4 by 2.5 cm aggregate of
lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
to reveal 9 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.4-1.8 cm in greatest dimension.
All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
B1: One candidate lymph node, bisected
B2: 4 candidate lymph nodes
B3: 4 candidate lymph nodes
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "3. Bladder ". Received
fresh and place in formalin is a 214.8 g cystectomy and urethrectomy specimen
with overall measurements of 13 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm. The bladder measures 7 x 6.5 x
4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.4 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter,
and the left measures 1.2 cm in length by 0.8 cm in diameter, and each
demonstrates an intact patent lumen, although the left ureter demonstrates
resistance to probing. The attached urethra measures 4.6 cm in length by 0.7 cm
in diameter with a 7.5 x 2.5 cm portion of tan-pink skin anteriorly and tan-pink
vaginal mucosa posteriorly. The serosal surface shows yellow lobulated
fibroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact. The bladder is inked blue on
the right half and black on the left half. The specimen is opened anteriorly to
reveal a 6 x 5.2 cm area of induration with partially ulcerated and heaped up,
hemorrhagic mucosa involving the entire left lateral wall, posterior wall, and
trigone and surrounding both right and left ureters. On cut section, the
induration extends through the muscularis propria and into the perivesical
adipose tissue, where it abuts the deep margin. The surrounding bladder mucosa
is granular and pink-tan with a uniform 1 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral
orifices, adjacent to the trigone, are identified and probe patent, although the
left ureter demonstrates resistance to probing. The urethral mucosa is tan-pink
and glistening, with no lesions. Photographs are taken.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Left ureter resection margin
C2: Right ureter resection margin
C3: Distal urethral margin
C4-C6: Representative sections of urethra, full thickness to anterior
vaginal wall
C7-C8: Induration, posterior wall, tandem sections, with closest
approach to deep margin (C8)
C9: Induration, posterior wall
C10: Induration, left lateral wall
C11: Induration, trigone
C12: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
C13: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
C14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa right lateral wall
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "4. Uterus, cervix,
tubes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 42.9 gm hysterectomy specimen
with attached bilateral adnexa. The uterus measures 3.2 cm from fundus to lower
uterine segment by 3.2 cm from cornu to cornu by 2.3 cm from anterior to
posterior. The serosal surface is red-tan and glistening. The cervical face is
pink-tan, glistening and measures 2 x 1.9 cm with a 1 cm slitlike os. The
anterior surface is inked black and the posterior surface is inked blue. The
specimen is opened revealing a 2.7 cm endocervical canal lined with tan-pink
mucosa a triangular endometrial cavity measuring 0.7 cm from cornu to cornu by
1.2 cm in length and lined with tan-pink, endometrium measuring 0.1 cm in
thickness. The specimen is sectioned reveal pink-tan myometrium which is up to
0.7 cm in greatest thickness.
The left adnexa structure consists of an 8 cm long and 0.4 cm diameter
fimbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2 x 1.6 x 0.8 cm and is
sectioned to revealed fibrotic, white-tan, ovarian stroma.
The right adnexa structure consists of a 6 cm long and 0.5 cm diameter
fimbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2.3 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and is
sectioned to revealed fibrotic, white-tan ovarian stroma.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1: Anterior cervix
D2: Posterior cervix
D3: Anterior endomyometrium
D4: Posterior endomyometrium
D5-D6: Sections of left ovary and fallopian tube
D7: Section of right ovary and fallopian tube
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "5. Appendix". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7 cm in length by 0.6 cm in external diameter
vermiform appendix. The resection margin is inked blue. The serosal surface is
tan-pink and smooth. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a wall
thickness of 0.1 cm. The lumen is patent with soft tan-brown material.
Representative sections of the body, resection margin, and longitudinal
appendiceal tip are submitted in E1.
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "6. Left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a tan, soft portion of ureter measuring
0.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is oriented with a stitch
on the non-margin side. The margin is inked black and the specimen is bisected
and entirely submitted as F1.
G. The seventh container is additionally identified as, "7. Right distal
ureter". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft, tan portion of ureter
measuring 2.5 cm in length by 0.6 cm in diameter. The specimen is oriented with
a stitch on the non-margin side. The margin is inked black and the specimen is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted as Gl.
XX
[], MD
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is cicle):
Reviewad/initi
12/18/12
QUALIFIED
Yes
/ DISCUTED
Date viewed: 81
No
