Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Location:
Copy To:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
Left breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stith- superior, long lateral):
- Invasive ductal 
carcinoma, Nottingham grade 2 (3+2+2), 2.5 cm in greatest linear dimension.
- Associated ductal carcinoma in situ, intermediate grade (DIN2), cribriform type with necrosis.
- The margins 
are free from tumor.
-
-
Distance from the nearest margin is 1.8 cm (superior).
- Lymphovascular space invasion is identified.
No malignancy seen in skin.
- Microcalcifications.
- Previous biopsy site.
Skin left breast:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma infiltrating ductal, Nos
Site: breast, Nos
8500/3
3/12/11 for
C50.9
-
- No malignancy seen in skin.
C.
D.
E.
-
Additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue Indicates true margin:
· Invasive ductal carcinoma, 0.4 cm in greatest linear dimension.
· The distance from the true margin is 1.0 cm.
Left axillary contents:
"
•
Metastatic carcinoma in one out of thirteen lymph nodes with extranodal extension (1/13).
Size of metastatic tumor is 
2.0 cm.
Right breast tissue:
No malignancy seen in skin.
Fibroadenoma.
Tumor Summary (Invasive Carcinoma of the Breast):
Specimen Type: Partial breast
Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
UUID:A6882364-89DA-4DC7-9AA7-A08BBCC85025
TCGA-EW-A1PA-01A-PR
Redacted
Lymph Node Sampling: Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 16cm
Additional dimensions: 12 x 3 cm
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 2.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 2 x 1 
cm
Tumor Focality: Multiple foci of invasive carcinoma
Number of focl: 2
Sizes of individual foci: 2.5 cm and 0.4 cm
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ: DCIS is present
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise specified)
Histologic Grade:
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 2
Mitotic Count: Score 2
Overall Grade: Grade 2
Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1.0 cm (superior)
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 12
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 1
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells: 2.0 cm
Extranodal Extension: Present
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN1a
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present
Progesterone Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present
Her2: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: Negative (Score 0)
Microcalcifications: Present in invasive carcinoma
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5=ER, PgR 
636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9-CMV, F39.4.1-AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is 
by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
2, MD
As the attending pathologist, I attest that 1: () Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (i) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Clinical History:
Female with left breast cancer
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Left breast cancer
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Left breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stith-superior, long lateral) fresh
B: Skin left breeast (perm)
C: Additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue indicates true margin (perm)
D: Left axillary contents (perm)
E: Right breast tissue (perm)
Gross Description:
A.
Received fresh and labeled "left breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stith-superior, long lateral) fresh"
specimen is inked for evaluation of margins as follows: posterior, black; 
anterior, yellow; superior, blue; Inferior, green
;
lateral, orange; medial, red. The specimen weighs 299.0 grams and 
measures 16.0 cm from medial to lateral, 12.0 cm
Inferior to superior and 3.0 cm anterior to posterior. It is oval in shape, 
yellow in color, soft in consistency. The specimen
has an ellipse of skin measuring 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Serial sectioning of the 
specimen reveals an oval mass with infiltrating
borders and measures approximately 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The mass 
occupies 10% of the entire specimen. It is white 
in
color and firm in consistency. The distance of the mass from the margin 
is as follows: posterior 2.0 cm, inferior 2.0 cm
,
anterior 3.0 cm, superior 3.0 cm, medial 10.0 cm, lateral 9.0 cm. The 
remaining of the breast parenchyma appears
unremarkable with fat to stroma ratio 90:10. The mass has a clip. A 
section of mass was submitted to tissue bank.
Sections submitted as follows:
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
B.
C.
D.
E.
Sections of the mass in toto
1-8
9&10 Representative section from the superior margin)
11&12 Representative section from inferior margin
13&14 Representative section from lateral margin
15&16 Representative section from medial margin
17&18 Representative section from posterior margin
19&20 Representative section from anterior margin
21
22
Representative section from the remaining breast parenchyma
Representative section of the skin
Received in formalin and labeled “skin left breast" is a skin tag measuring 5.0 x 1.0 cm. Representative section submitted
in one cassette.
Received in formalin and labeled "additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue indicates true margin (perm)" is
oval in shape. The surgeon inked the true margin in blue. Resident inked true margin in black. It measures 3.0 x 1.0 x 1.0
cm. It is submitted in toto in eight cassettes.
Received in formalin and labeled "left axillary contents (perm)" is axillary contents measuring 10.0 x 8.0 x 3.5 cm. It is
yellow in color and soft in consistency. There are 13 lymph nodes. The largest lymph node measures 2.0 x 2.0 cm. The
lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
1-8
9
10
Two lymph nodes
One lymph node per cassette
Three lymph nodes
Received in formalin and labeled "right breast tissue (perm)" is a soft, yellow breast tissue measuring 14.0 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm.
Serial sectioning does not reveal any gross lesions. The breast parenchyma appears to be normal with fat to stroma ratio
90:10. It has a skin tag measuring 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Sections are submitted as follows:
1
Section from skin
2-4
Representative section of stroma
ICD-9(s):
174.8 196.3 217
MD
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tu.nor S. Le Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy; History
Qual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIHILD
Date Reviewed.
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
for 3/12/11
Page 3 of 3
