UUID:73CA1D6C-0158-4324-9D82-4442254EF8A4
TCGA-UY-A9PA-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name.
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
Visit #:
Sex:
Location:
Male
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Accession #:
Service Date:
Received:
Client:
ICD0.3
Carne dested NO581203
Site Kladder, latual wall
0672
31582014
A. Left ureter, biopsy: Ureter with no significant pathologic abnormality; no tumor
identified.
B. Right ureter, biopsy: Ureter with no significant pathologic abnormality; no tumor
identified.
C. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:
1. Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma, 3.0 cm, invading perivesicular fat,
negative margins; see comment.
2. Extensive carcinoma in situ extending to bladder dome.
3. Prostate with no significant pathologic abnormality, no prostatic or urothelial
carcinoma identified.
4. Bilateral seminal vesicles with no significant pathologic abnormality.
5. Bilateral ureters with no significant pathologic abnormality.
D. Bladder, "more," excision: Fibrofatty tissue; no tumor identified.
E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identified in thirteen lymph nodes
(0/13).
F. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identified in eight lymph nodes
(0/8); see comment.
G. Meckel's diverticulum, excision: Small bowel mucosa with focal gastric
heterotopia; no tumor identified.
H. Left ureter, "final," excision: Ureter with no significant pathologic abnormality.
Page 1 of 4
I. Right ureter, "final," excision: Ureter with no significant pathologic abnormality.
COMMENT:
The urothelial carcinoma does not invade the prostate. No prostatic adenocarcinoma is identified, and
no high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia is seen.
An immunohistochemical stain for keratin was performed on slide F1, and is negative, ruling against
metastatic carcinoma.
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma.
· Tumor grade: High grade.
-
Tumor size: 3.0 cm.
->
› Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion through muscularis propria into perivesical tissue.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.
"
-
· Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
- Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
- Margins: Negative (invasive tumor is 0.3 cm from margin).
- Right ureter margin: Negative.
- Left ureter margin: Negative.
- Perivesical margin: Negative (invasive tumor is 0.3 cm from margin).
- Lymph node status: Negative.
- Total number of nodes examined: 21.
- Total number of positive nodes: 0.
- Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT3aNOMX.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Left ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:Right ureter, biopsy (FS)
C:Bladder (FS)
D:More bladder specimen (fresh)
E:Right pelvic lymph node
F:Left pelvic lymph node
G:Meckel's "diverticle"
H:Final left ureter
I:Final right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Left ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
FS2 (B) Right ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
FS3 (C) Urethral margin, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is at
cystoprostatectomy.
Gross Description
-year-old man with urothelial carcinoma who now undergoes radical
The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A and B are received fresh for frozen section diagnosis. Parts D-I are received in
Page 2 of 4
formalin.
Part A, additionally labeled "1 - left ureter," consists of one soft, irregular, unoriented, white-pink-red,
irregular tissue fragment that is 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1.
Part B, additionally labeled "2 - right ureter," consists of one soft, irregular, unoriented, white-pink-red,
irregular tissue fragment that is 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette B1.
Part C is received fresh additionally labeled "bladder," and consists of a 288-gram bladder and prostate
measuring 13.5 x 11 x 4.5 cm. The urethral margin is submitted for frozen section diagnosis #3. The
bladder mucosa shows a 3 x 2 cm, pink-tan, papillary mass that is on the left wall and extends from the
trigone to the left dome. The tumor extends into the muscualris propia 2cm, and appears to abut but
not involve the serosal surface. The mass does not appear to involve the perivesicular fat. The mass is
2 cm from the prostate. The remaining bladder mucosa is tan-pink, folded and unremarkable. The
attached prostate measures 4 x 3 x 3 cm, and on cut section, contains white-tan, whorled, grossly
unremarkable prostate parenchyma. The attached seminal vesicles each measure 3 × 2 × 2 cm appear
grossly unremarkable. The perivesicular fat is removed, and lymph nodes are thoroughly searched for,
however, and no lymph nodes are found. Cassettes are submitted as follows:
Frozen section 3 frozen section remnant.
Cassette C1:
Cassettes C2-C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassettes C7-C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Cassette C11:
Cassettes C12-C13:
Full thickness sections showind deepest extent of invasion.
Relationship of mass to adjacent bladder mucosa.
Consecutive sections showing relationship of the mass to the prostate.
Right bladder dome.
Right bladder wall.
Right inferior bladder wall.
Prostate apex after removal of the urethral margin.
Cassettes C14-C15: Mid-portions of the prostate.
Cassette C16:
Cassette C17:
Left prostate base with seminal vesicles.
Right prostate base with seminal vesicles.
Part D, labeled "#4 - more bladder specimen," consists of a single soft, irregular piece of fat measuring
3 x 2.5 x 0.3 cm. One portion of this fatty tissue has a stitch attached, and this stitch may be a
retraction aid. Nonetheless, the area is inked black. The stitch is removed. This stitched area has a
fibrous, beefy appearance and consistency. The specimen is entirely submitted with the firm fibrous
tissue in cassette D1 and the remaining fatty tissue in cassette D2.
Part E, additionally labeled "5 - right pelvic LN," consists of multiple tan-brown-yellow fatty tissue
fragments measuring 5.5 x 4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is trimmed and extensively
searched for lymph nodes. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and the entire specimen is
submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassette E2:
Cassettes E3-E4:
Four intact nodes.
Largest intact nodet
Remainder of specimen
Part F, additionally labeled "6 - left pelvic LN," consists of multiple soft, tan-yellow, fatty tissue
fragments measuring 5 x 4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is trimmed and extensively searched
for lymph nodes. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and the entire specimen is submitted as
follows:
Cassette F1:
Cassette F2:
Cassette F3:
Four intact nodes.
Three intact nodes.
Remaining fat
Part G, additionally labeled "7 - Meckel's diverticle [sic]," consists of one firm, pink-tan, unoriented
tissue fragment measuring 1.7 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. On one end, the specimen reveals a lumen that
measures 0.2 cm in diameter with a pink-tan ring. The specimen is inked blue, then longitudinally
transected reveal soft and firm, pink-tan homogeneous tissue. No lesions are noted. The entire
Page 3 of 4
specimen is submitted in cassette G1.
Part H, additionally labeled "8 - final left ureter," consists of one soft, tan-light brown tissue fragment
oriented by a black suture and metal staple on one end, measuring 1 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The suture and
the staple line are removed, and the underlying area is inked blue. The specimen is cross-sectioned and
entirely submitted in cassette H1.
Part I, additionally labeled "9 - final right ureter," consists of one soft, tan-brown tissue fragment
oriented by a tan suture and a metal staple on one end measuring 1.1 × 0.8 × 0.4 cm. The suture and
the staple are removed and the underlying area is inked blue. The specimen is cross-sectioned and
entirely submitted in cassette I1. (✓
The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the
They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Pathology Resident
/Pathologist
Electronically signed out on
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
ho 1/6/14
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
ed: 12/24/2013
✓
Page 4 of 4
