UUID:4AF67A51-97C1-4D58-9E60-03FDFFACD38A
TCGA-A7-A3RF-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, mucinous
848013
Final Surgical Pathology Report
Site: breast, Nos
3/4/12 20
C50.9
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A.
Left axillary sentinel nodes, excision: 2 lymph nodes negative for
metastatic disease, 0/2
B. Left breast mass, excision: Invasive mucinous carcinoma, Elston SBR
grade 2.
Tumor is less than 1 mm from the deep margin and at least
extremely close to the lateral margin.
C. Pectoralis fascia, excision: Adipose tissue and skeletal muscle
present. Mucinous carcinoma present in the adipose tissue at the inked
medial margin of resection.
Microscopic Description:
Of note,
A. 2 sentinel nodes are present examined in their entirety at multiple
levels. They are both negative for metastatic disease, 0/2
B. This excision discloses invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma.
it has a higher nuclear grade the usual mucinous carcinoma. Also,
particularly in block #35, there was a suspicion for lymphatic invasion.
This is considered not to be the case, however, based on stains for
D240 and CD34. The negative staining for p63 also helps to exclude in
situ tumor. Please see the template below:
Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type: Invasive mucinous carcinoma
Histologic grade: Elston SBR grade 2
Overall grade:
Architectural score: 2
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): 3.7 cm, pT 2
Specimen margins: Tumor is present less than 1 mm from the
deep margin and at least extremely close to the lateral margin.
Vessel invasion: Negative
Calcification: Rare
Description of non-tumorous breast: No significant pathology
Comments: Attached skin negative for tumor
Prognostic markers: Previously performed
C. Microscopic examination performed
Specimen
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B.
C.
Left breast mass, long anterior, short superior
Pectoralis/posterior, long anterior short superior
Clinical Information
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer
HISTORY: -year-old white female with left mucinous breast cancer
Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "left axillary sentinel node" are 2 soft tan
The
gold-pink tissues averaging 1.8 cm in greatest dimension.
specimens are bisected and entirely submitted independently in 2
blocks.
container
There is a
B. Received fresh for tissue procurement within a
labeled "left breast mass" is a 7.5 cm (medial to lateral) by 5.0 cm
(superior to inferior) by 4.2 cm (anterior to posterior) soft,
lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose tissue with 2 sutures
as stated previously. A 2.7 x 1.3 cm wrinkled tan-white portion of
skin is present along the anterior aspect. The margins are inked as
follows: Anterior blue, posterior black, superior green, and inferior
orange. The specimen is sectioned from medial to lateral.
well-circumscribed, 3.7 cm (medial to lateral) by 3.2 cm (superior to
inferior) by 2.7 cm (anterior to posterior) rubbery tan white mucinous
tumor mass within the lateral half of the specimen. A portion of tumor
and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement
as requested. The tumor focally extends to within less than 0.1 cm of
the inked posterior margin. Several cylindrical tan-white structures
in keeping with those associated with needle core biopsy are present
The remaining cut surfaces consist predominantly of soft, lobulated tan
gold adipose tissue with a scant amount of interspersed delicate
n-white fibrous tissue.
Summary: 1 - perpendicular sections medial margin, 2 through 9
sequential sections, 10 perpendicular sections lateral margin
Specimen is fixed at
C. Received fresh labeled "pectoralis fascia posterior" is a 3.0 cm
(superior to inferior) by 2.5 cm (medial to lateral) by 0.7 cm anterior
to posterior) soft, lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose
tissue with 2 sutures as stated previously. The margins are inked as
follows: Anterior blue, posterior black, medial green, and lateral
The cut
orange. The specimen is sectioned from superior to inferior.
surfaces consist predominantly of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose
tissue with a scant amount of interspersed delicate tan-white fibrous
tissue. No residual mass lesion or abnormality is identified grossly.
Summary: 1 - perpendicular sections superior margin, 2 through 4 -
sequential sections, 5 - perpendicular sections inferior margin
Specimen is fixed at
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary amor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Juai, Synch, unous Primary Noted
Case is (circle): 11 ✓CQUALIFIED
Reviewer Initials
Date Reviewed
1
QUALIFIED,
13/7/12
