Name:
DOB:
Age:
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
UUID:8652E026-9C4D-4AB6-AADE-29DA3345892E
TCGA-EW-A3U0-01A-PR
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. SPECIMEN LABELED SENTINEL NODE # 1 COUNT
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).
Redacted
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
LEFT BREAST:
LEFT BREAST:
B. SPECIMEN LABELED SENTINEL NODE # 2 COUNT
METASTATIC DUCTAL CARCINOMA in one lymph node (1/1), measuring 0.5 cm in linear dimension.
C. SPECIMEN LABELED SENTINEL NODE #3 COUNT
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).
) LEFT BREAST:
D. SPECIMEN LABELED “NON-SENTINEL LYMPH NODE LEFT BREAST":
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).
E. LEFT BREAST EXCISION:
INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA, moderately differentiated, Nottingham grade 2 (3+2+1=6), 8.5 cm in
greatest dimension, asociated with calcifications.
Nerarest margins: Posterior, 1 mm (E2); medial, 3mm (E16); anterior, 5 mm (E4); lateral, inferior and
superior, >5mm.
Negative for lymphovascular invasion.
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU, intermediate nuclear grade, solid and cribriform type, DIN II, associated
with necrosis and calcifications, present is 8 out of 17 slides.
Nearest margins: inferior <1mm (E7); medial 1mm (E12); posterior 2mm (E2); anterior 5mm, superior and
lateral >5mm.
Extensive intraductal component negative.
Note: Immunohistochemistry stains on a prior specimen were:
ER
PR
NEGATIVE (<1%)
NEGATIVE (<1%)
HER2
NEGATIVE (0)
F. SPECIMEN LABELED “ADDITIONAL ANTERIOR MARGIN, LEFT BREAST":
Negative for carcinoma.
Skin with no specific pathologic changes.
ICD0-3
Carcinoma, ductal,
infiltrating
850013
site: breast, Nos
46-12
050.9
ко
G. LEFT LYMPH NODE DISSECTION, AXILLA:
Two lymph nodes, negatve for carcinoma (0/2).
H. LEFT LYMPH NODE DISSECTION, AXILLA:
Nineteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/19).
Pathology Cancer Case Summary:
INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE LEFT BREAST:
Specimen Type: Partial breast
Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling:
Sentinel lymph node(s)
Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Other lymph nodes (eg, location not identified)
Specimen Integrity: Multiple designated specimens (eg, main excision and identified margins)
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 9.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 6.5 x 3.8 cm
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1
cm: 8.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 6.0 x 3.3 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Skin is not present
Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ: DCIS is present
Extensive intraductal component (EIC) negative
Size (Extent) of DCIS:
Number of blocks with DCIS: 8
Number of blocks examined: 17
Architectural Patterns:
Cribriform
Solid
Nuclear Grade: Grade II (intermediate)
Necrosis: Present, central (expansive "comedo" necrosis)
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ: Not identified
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise
specified)
Histologic Grade:
Margins:
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 2
Mitotic Count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1 mm, posterior, medial
Specify margins:
Distance from superior margin: >5 mm
Distance from inferior margin: > 5mm (E7)
Distance from anterior margin: 5 mm (E4)
Distance from posterior margin: 1 mm (E2)
Distance from medial margin: 3 mm (E16)
Distance from lateral margin: >5 mm
Uninvolved by DCIS
Distance from closest margin: <1 mm, inferior
Specify margins:
Distance from superior margin: >5 mm
Distance from inferior margin: <1mm (E7)
Distance from anterior margin: 5 mm (E4)
Distance from posterior margin: 2 mm (E2)
Distance from medial margin: 1 mm (E12)
Distance from lateral margin: >5 mm
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical Therapy:
In the breast: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 3
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 25
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 1
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases: 0
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells: 0
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 5.0 mm
Extranodal Extension: Not identified
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Primary Tumor:
pT3: Tumor >50 mm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes:
pN1a: Metastases in 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes, at least 1 metastasis greater than 2.0 mm
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: NEGATIVE, Less than 1% immunoreactive cells present
Progesterone Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: NEGATIVE, Less than 1% immunoreactive cells present
Her2: Performed on another specimen
Microcalcifications:
Specify specimen:
Results: NEGATIVE, Score 0
Present in DCIS
Present in invasive carcinoma
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval.
These clones are used: ID5=ER, PgR 636=PR, 1485=HER2, H-11=EGFR. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by
The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the
relevant preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the
diagnosis(es).
Intraoperative Consultation
A. Sentinel node # 1 Count
Left breast: Negative for carcinoma (0/1)
left breast: One lymph node, positive for carcinoma (1/1)
B. Sentinel node # 2 count
C. Sentinel node # 3 count
' left breast: Negative for carcinoma (0/1)
Clinical History:
Breast cancer
Operation Performed
Left partial mastectomy and left sentinel lymph node biopsy
Specimen(s) Received:
A: SENTINEL NODE # 1 COUNT 1
B: SENTINEL NODE # 2 COUNT
C: SENTINEL NODE #3 COUNT
LEFT BREAST
5 LEFT BREAST
:) LEFT BREAST
D: NON-SENTINEL LYMPH NODE LEFT BREAST
E: LEFT BREAST MASS-ONE STITCH SHORT SUPERIOR, LONG IS LATERAL
F: ADDITIONAL ANTERIOR MARGIN
G: LEFT AXILLA
H: LEFT AXILLARY CONTENTS
Gross Description:
A.
node with
Received fresh labeled "Sentinel node # 1 Count
toto in cassette
B.
- left breast". The specimen consists of a lymph
surrounding fibroadipose tissue which measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in
Received fresh labeled "Sentinel node #2 count left breast". The specimen consists of a lymph node
with surrouding fibroadipose tissue which measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette !
.
C. Received fresh labeled "Sentinel node # 3 count left breast". The specimen consists of a lymph node
with surrounding fibroadipose tissue which measures 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette (
D.
Received in formalin labeled "Non-sentinel lymph node - left breast". The specimen consists of a lymph
node with
surrounding fibroadipose tissue which measures 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and
submitted in toto in
one cassette.
E.
Received fresh labeled "Left breast mass - one stitch short superior - long lateral". The specimen consists
of a left lumpectomy specimen which measures 9.0 cm from medial to lateral by 6.5 cm from inferior to
superior by 3.8 cm from anterior to posterior. There are two sutures; the long designating lateral and the
short is designating superior. There is a firm, white, irregularly shaped and poorly defined mass located in
the center of the specimen with diffuse extension to the medial and lateral margin. The extensions are
surrounding by white indurated areas. The tumor appears to be less than 1mm from the superior margin
less than 1mm from the posterior margin. The tumor with indurated area appears to be less than 1mm from
the inferior margin. The tumor appears to be less than 1mm from the anterior margin, less than 1mm from
the medial margin and less than 1mm from the lateral margin. The main part of the tumor measures 3.5
x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. But with the extensions and indurated areas the tumor measures 9.0 x 6.5 x 3.8 cm. The
specimen isinked as follows:
Posterior black
Anterior yellow
Superior blue
Inferior green
Lateral orange
Medial red
A section of tumor was taken fresh from frozen section for research. Approximately 50% of the section is
submitted.
Sections are submitted as follows:
Cassettes #1&2
Tumor in relation to deep posterior margin
F.
Cassettes #3&4
Cassettes #5&6
Cassettes #7&8
Cassettes #9&10
Cassettes #11&12
Cassette #13
Cassette #14
Cassette #15
Cassette #16
Cassette #17
Representative sections of tumor in relation to anterior margin
Representative section of tumor in relation to superior margin
Relationship of tumor to inferior margin
Relationship of tumor to the lateral margin
Representative section of tumor to the medial margin
Additional section of tumor near the posterior margin
Additional section of tumor near anterior margin
Representative section of possible biopsy cavity
Representative section of tumor with central focal hemorrhage
Possible biopsy site
Received in formalin labeled "Additional anterior margin". The specimen consists of a fragment of skin with
attached
fibroadipose tissue, skin measures 12.0 x 1.1 cm and is tan-brown in color. Adipose tissue
measures 1.5 x 0.8 cm. No
lesions are identified. The specimen is sectioned and skin is submitted toto in
five cassettes.
G.
measures
Received in formalin labeled "Left axilla". The specimen consists of a fragment of fibroadipose tissue which
2.0 x 1.5 x 0.9 cm. The largest lymph node measures 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and is inked green. There
is one additional lymph node identified. The specimen is submittedin toto in cassette one. The largest lymph node
is bisected.
H.
measures
Received in formalin labeled “Left axillary contents". The specimen consists of a fibroadipose tissue which
11.0 x 8.0 x 4.0 cm. The specimen is unoriented. No skeletal muscle is identified. The largest
2.6 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The sections are submitted as follows:
lymph node measures
Three lymph nodes
One lymph node
One lymph node
Cassette #1
Cassette #2
Cassette #3
One lymph node
Cassette #4
Cassette #5
Cassette #6
Cassette #7
Cassette #8
Cassette #9
Cassette #10
One possible lymph node
Two lymph nodes
Four possible lymph nodes
Three possible lymph nodes
Three possible lymph nodes
Four possible lymph nodes
Diteria
Jagnes's Disc councy
'r mary lumo Se Discrepancy
IPAA
cepat.cv
or Mapenancy History
Qual, ynchronous Primary Noted
ase is (circle!
eviewer Inils
QUALIFIED
Yes
No
Date Reviewed."
4/4/12
DISQUALIFIED/
