Name:
DOB:
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
D.
Right breast short stich superior long lateral right single mastectomy:
- Benign mammary parenchyma, no malignancy seen.
Left breast and level I and II of axilla to tumor short superior, left lateral:
- Invasive ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 3 (3+3+2), 2.8 cm in greatest linear dimension, focally present at the
anterior specimen margin.
· Ductal carcinoma in situ, high grade (DIN 3) solid type.
- Organizing previous biopsy cavity.
- Lymphovascular space invasion is present.
Metastatic carcinoma in four out of nine lymph nodes (4/9).
- Receptors to follow.
Additional fat above left breast tumor:
- No malignancy seen in adipose tissue.
Left level III axilla:
- No malignancy seen in four lymph nodes (0/4).
Tumor Summary (Invasive Carcinoma of the Breast);
Specimen Type: Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant; Lower inner quadrant
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal Nos 8500/3
Site, breast, Nos C50.9
2/8/11
ww
UUID:F5EF4698-364C-4A5B-A8EC-1CF231BEEF31
TCGA-EW-A1IZ-01A-PR
Redacted
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 2.8 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ: DCIS is present
Architectural Patterns: Solid
Nuclear Grade: Grade ill (high)
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ: Not identified
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise specified)
Histologic Grade:
Margins:
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3
Mitotic Count: Score 2
Overall Grade: Grade 3
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from posterior margin: 2 cm
Uninvolved by DCIS (if present)
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 13
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 4
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 2.0 cm
Extranodal Extension: Not identified
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
TNM Descriptors: m (multiple foci of invasive carcinoma)
Primary Tumor pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN2
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: Pending
Progesterone Receptor: Pending
Her2: Pending
***Electronically Signed Out By*** |
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically usatul indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5=ER, PgR 636-PR, A485×HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9=CMV, F39.4.1=AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (1) Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Status: Signed Out
Addendum Diagnosis
The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR and negative for HER2 by immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemistry for p63 was
used in the evaluation of the specimen.
Clinical History:
female with left breast cancer
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Left breast cancer
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Right breast short stich superior long lateral right single mastectomy (fresh)
B: Left breast and level I and II of axilla to tumor short superior, left lateral (fresh)
C: Additional fat above left breast tumor (perm)
D: Left level III axilla (perm)
Gross Description:
A.
Received fresh and labeled “right breast short stich superior long lateral right single mastectomy (fresh)" is a breast
specimen measuring 18.0 x 15.0 x 5.0 cm. It has a white-tan ellipse of skin measuring 4.0 x 1.0 cm. The nipple measures
1.0 x 1.0 cm. The skin is unremarkable and nipple is unremarkable. Deep margin is smooth, facial plane without any
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
skeletal muscle. Deep margin is inked in black. Serial sectioning of the mastectomy specimen does not reveal any gross
lesion. Specimen submitted as follows:
B.
1&2
Sections from upper outer quadrant
3&4
Representative section from lower outer quadrant
5&6
Representative section from upper inner quadrant
7&8
9&10
11
Representative section from lower inner quadrant
Representative section from central quadrant
Representative section from nipple
Received fresh and labeled "left breast and level I and II of axilla to tumor short superior, left lateral (fresh)" is a
mastectomy specimen measuring 19.0 x 17.0 x 3.0 cm. It has a white-tan ellipse of skin measuring 2.5 x 2.0 cm. The
axillary tail measures 13.0 x 9.0 cm. The skin and nipple are unremarkable. Deep margin is smooth, facial plane without
any skeletal muscle. Deep margin is inked black, superior margin is inked blue, medial margin is inked red and inferior
margin is inked green. Serial sectioning of the mastectomy specimen reveals a 2.8 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm firm gray mass located
in the lower outer quadrant, less than 0.1 cm from the inked anterior specimen margin. There is also a 1x 1x1 cm mass
in the lower inner quadrant. The mass is well defined. It has a clip in it. In the upper inner quadrant, there is an area of
necrosis measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. It is brown in color and soft in consistency. Remainder of the breast parenchyma is
predominantly white and firm with small cyst measuring up to 0.3 cm in greatest dimension. The axillary tail is yellow and
soft. There are 13 possible lymph nodes. The largest measures 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. Sections submitted as
follows:
1-8
Mass in the lower inner quadrant
9&10 Area of necrosis
11&12 Representative section from upper outer quadrant
13&14 Representative section from lower outer quadrant
15&16 Representative section from upper inner quadrant
17&18 Representative section from lower inner quadrant
19&20 Representative section from the central quadrant
21
22-24
25-37
38-41
C.
Representative section from the nipple
Contains representative section from the largest lymph node
One lymph node per cassette
Additional section of mass in lower outer quadrant
D.
Received in formalin and labeled "additional fat above left breast tumor" is a soft fragment measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm.
Submitted in toto in three cassettes.
Received in formalin and labeled "left level III axilla" is a pale yellow, soft tissue fragment measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm.
Four possible lymph nodes are bisected and submitted in toto in four cassettes.
ICD-9(8):
174.5 174.3 196.3
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Frinary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Por Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIEPT
Date Reviewed:
M
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
Page 3 of 3
