UUID:04F6BAED-CAA0-4396-9332-3EB8BA902895
TCGA-UY-A78M-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial MOS
812013
CSCF
Suite
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Bladder NOS
0679
path
A.
Right ureter, biopsy (FS): No carcinoma identified.
B.
Left ureter, biopsy (FS): No carcinoma identified.
C.
D.
E.
Everlapping lesion y fladder
of
9W 8/20/13
Bladder, uterus with cervix, and bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes; radical
cystectomy, total abdominal hysterectomy, and bilateral salpingooophorectomy
(exenteration):
Bladder:
1.
2.
3.
High-grade invasive urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma, involving
muscularis propria. See comment.
Focal carcinoma in situ.
No carcinoma seen in three pericystic lymph nodes (0/3).
- Uterus: Cervix, endometrium, myometrium, and serosa with no significant
pathologic abnormality; no carcinoma identified.
· Bilateral ovaries: Atrophic ovaries with calcified blood vessels; no carcinoma
identified.
- Bilateral fallopian tubes: No significant pathologic abnormality; no carcinoma
identified.
Right pelvic lymph node, dissection: Metastatic urothelial (transitional cell)
carcinoma in two of eight lymph nodes (2/8).
Left pelvic lymph node, dissection: No carcinoma identified in six lymph nodes
(
0/6
).
F.
Final ureter, left, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.
G.
Final ureter, right, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma.
2. Tumor grade: High-grade.
3. Tumor size: 4.0 cm.
4. Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not seen.
6. Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: Absent.
8. Surgical margins:
Urethral margin: Free of tumor.
Right ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Left ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Perivesical margin: Free of tumor.
9. Lymph nodes: 2 of 17 lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor; the largest metastatic deposit measures
1.3 cm in greatest dimension; there is no extranodal tumor 
growth.
10. Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bN2Mx.
12. Additional comments: None.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Right ureter (FS)
B:Left ureter (FS)
C:Bladder
D:Right pelvic lymph node
E:Left pelvic lymph node
F:Final ureter, left
G:Final ureter, right
Clinical History
The patient is an ☑-year-old woman with bladder cancer. She undergoes anterior pelvic exenteration and
bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.
Gross Description
The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Parts E-G are received in formalin.
Part A is received fresh and is additionally labeled "1 - right ureter." It consists of a segment of ureter,
measuring 0.3 cm in diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis 
as FS1
,
the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Al.
with
Part B is received fresh and is additionally labeled "#2 left ureter." It consists of a single segment of ureter,
measuring 0.4 cm in diameter and 0.2 cm in thickness. The specimen is entirely submitted 
for frozen
section diagnosis as FS2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette 
Bl.
Part C is received fresh and is additionally labeled "#3 bladder." It consists of a bladder and urethra,
weighing 290 gm. Attached to the bladder is a uterus and bilateral adnexa. The 
specimen is inked 
in black
and opened in the anterior fashion. The left adnexa is inked in green and the right adnexa 
in blue ink for
orientation. The posterior aspect of the uterus is inked in red ink for orientation
.
The bladder is remarkable for a tan-white, fungating mass that extends over the surface of the posterior
wall onto the right and left lateral walls. The mass does not involve the anterior walls 
grossly. The mass
covers the right ureteral opening. It extends to within a distance of 0.9 cm of the urethral 
opening. The
mass lies 5.2 cm from the distal urethral margin. The mass measures 4.0 
cm from right to left and 3.5 
cm
from superior to inferior, and it extends to a depth of 0.4 cm grossly. Representative sections 
of the 
bladder
and urethra are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Distal urethral margin.
Left ureteral margin.
Inferior-posterior-central bladder.
Superior-posterior-central bladder.
Left superior-lateral wall.
Left inferior-lateral wall.
Right superior-lateral wall.
Right superior-lateral wall.
Right inferior-lateral wall, approaching serosal surface.
Anterior wall.
The uterus measures 5.8 cm from superior to inferior, 3.6 cm from cornu to cornu, and 2.3 cm from
anterior to posterior. The cervical os is round and measures 0.5 cm in diameter. The right ovary and
fallopian tube 
measure 3.9 x 2.8 x 1.2 cm. The left fallopian tube and ovary measure 3.8 x 2.8 x 0.8 cm.
The endocervix 
and endometrium are grossly unremarkable. No mass defects are identified. The
endocervix measures approximately 2.3 cm in length. The endometrium has an average thickness of <0.1
cm
. 
The myometrium measures 1.1 cm in average thickness. The right ovary is bivalved to reveal a
cavitary space, measuring 0.8 cm in average diameter, that has no fluid. The left ovary and fallopian tube
are 
grossly unremarkable. Representative sections of the uterus and adnexa are submitted as follows:
Cassette C11:
Anterior cervix.
Cassette C12:
Cassette C13:
Cassette C14:
Cassette C15:
Cassette C16:
Cassette C17:
Posterior cervix.
Anterior myometrium and endometrium.
Posterior myometrium and endometrium.
Right ovary and right fallopian tube.
Left ovary and left fallopian tube.
Candidate pericystic lymph nodes.
Part D is received fresh and is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node fresh." It consists of multiple
fragments of tan-
yellow, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 5.2 x 4.1 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. A small portion of one
lymph node is submitted 
for tissue banking. Candidate lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassette D4:
One lymph node, bisected, one half inked in blue.
One lymph node, bisected, one half inked in blue.
Candidate lymph nodes.
Candidate lymph nodes, submitted between tissue paper.
Part E is additionally labeled "#5 left pelvic lymph nodes." It consists of fibrofatty sot tissue measuring 2.0
x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The 
specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassettes E2-E4:
One lymph node, bisected, one half inked in blue.
Candidate lymph nodes.
Part F, additionally labeled "final ureter left," consists of a 2.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm fragment of pink-tan tube with
surrounding yellow-tan fat. 
The tube measures 0.5 cm in greatest diameter. The tip of the specimen is
inked, and the 
specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette F1.
Part G, additionally labeled "final right ureter," consists of a single, irregularly shaped fragment of pink-tan
tube with surrounding yellow
-tan fat measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The central
pink-tan tube 
measures 0.5 cm in diameter. The tip of the specimen is inked, and the specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted 
in cassette Gl.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all 
pathology slides.
Criteria
lw 8/9/13
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Intan
QUALIFIED 1 DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed 892013
