Surgical Pathology Report
*Final*
Surgical Pathology Report
Page 1 of 3
ICD0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial Nos
812013
Site Bladder NOS 262.9
JJ 2/24/14
UUID:9D1D2500-3E1D-4FDB-B2BC-3B215FB7F9C6
TCGA-SY-A9G5-01A-PR
Redacted
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Ureter, right, biopsy:
Complete cross section of benign ureter.
B. Right pelvic nodes, excision:
Ten lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/10).
C. Ureter, left, biopsy:
Complete cross section of benign ureter.
D. Left pelvic nodes, excision:
Four lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/4).
E. Bladder and prostate, cystectomy and prostatectomy:
Bladder: Urothelial carcinoma, high-grade (grade 3/3),
status post biopsy, at least 2.9 cm in greatest dimension, with
invasion into the superficial half of the muscularis propria and
invasion of the prostatic glands and stroma, negative for
lymphovascular invasion. Surgical margins free of involvement.
Focal adjacent carcinoma in situ. This tumor corresponds to an AJCC
pathologic stage grouping pT4a, NO. Biorepository sample positive
for invasive carcinoma.
Prostate: Focal high-grade prostatic intraepithelial
neoplasia. Seminal vesicles negative for malignancy.
CLINICAL INFORMATION:
Bladder cancer.
SPECIMEN (S):
A: Right ureter
B: Right pelvic nodes
C: Left ureter
D: Left pelvic
E: Bladder & prostate
PRELIMINARY INTRAOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Intraoperative Pathologist(s):
A. Right ureter, frozen section diagnosis: Negative for carcinoma.
B. Right pelvic nodes, frozen section diagnosis:
B1-B5, ten apparent lymph nodes, cannot identify metastases.
C. Left distal ureter, frozen section diagnosis: Negative for
carcinoma.
D. Left pelvic nodes, frozen section diagnosis:
D1-D3, eight lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma.
E. Bladder and prostate, frozen section diagnosis: Distal urethral
margin negative for carcinoma.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. Received fresh labeled and "right ureter" is
a single cylindrical, pink-tan portion of tissue 0.5 x 0.4 cm.
Entirely submitted following frozen section in one cassette labeled
A1.
B. Received fresh labeled and "right pelvic
nodes" is a portion of fibrofatty tissue containing ten lymph nodes
that are from 0.4 cm to 1.8 cm in maximum dimension. Entirely
submitted following frozen section in five cassettes labeled
B1-B5. B1) Three nodes; B2) one node serially sectioned;
B3) one node serially sectioned; B4) two nodes, one bisected after
inking; B5) three nodes.
C. Received fresh labeled and "left distal
ureter" is a cylindrical portion of tissue 0.5 x 0.4 cm partially
surrounded by fat. Submitted following frozen section in one
cassette labeled
C1.
D. Received fresh labeled and "left pelvic
nodes" is a portion of fat containing eleven possible lymph nodes
from 0.2 cm to 1.5 cm. Submitted in six cassettes labeled
D1-D6. D1) Frozen section of serially sectioned node; D2) frozen
section of two nodes; D3) frozen section of a single bisected node;
D4) three additional nodes; D5) two additional nodes; D6) two
additional nodes.
E. Received fresh labeled and "bladder and
prostate" is a radical cystoprostatectomy specimen, 12 x 8.5 x 6 cm.
The bladder has a prominent ulceration involving the right lateral
and anterior aspect, including the right trigone. This ulceration is
up to 2.5 x 2 cm with underlying indurated gray-white tumor tissue.
There is apparent tumor extending into the wall but not grossly
definitively into the perivesicular fat. A second area of prominent
ulceration is present on the right side of the prostatic urothelial
surface. The remaining bladder mucosa is edematous with no
additional mass or ulcer. The prostate is grossly involved by
granular, indurated, gray-white tumor encircling the prostatic
urethra, predominantly on the right side. The left side of the
prostate is inked black, the right side blue. No nodules are
identified within the attached perivesicular fat. Sampled in
Page 2 of 3
twenty-two cassettes labeled
E12) left
E1-E22. Summary of sections:
El) Frozen section distal urethral margin; E2-E5) tumor right
bladder wall; E6) right ureteral orifice; E7) left ureteral orifice;
E8) left lateral bladder; E9) bladder dome; E10) posterior bladder;
E11) mirror image of biorespitory samples, IRB #
prostate apical margin; E13) right prostate apical margin; E14) left
apical prostate; E15) right apical prostate; E16) left midprostate;
E17) right midprostate; E18) left base; E19) right base; E20) left
seminal vesicle; E21) right seminal vesicle; E22) tumor underlying
right side of proximal prostatic urethra.
Support for the diagnosis in this case may have included the
use of immunohistochemistry tests that were developed and whose
performance characteristics were determined by
They have not been cleared
or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified
to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.
Page 3 of 3
Criteria
Z 12/11/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
QUALIFIED DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 12617
