UUID:B7DD19FB-FF13-44CB-88FF-B42A6E20962B
TCGA-ZF-A9RC-01A-PR
Redacted
Lab No:
Sender:
Location:
Taken:
Received:
Status:
ICDO.3
PRINTED FROM ENQUIRY
SPECIMEN
Bladder and prostate.
CLINICAL DETAILS
Cystectomy.
MACROSCOPY
Carcinomas, urothelial NOS 812013
Sate Bladder, lateral wall C67.2
Je 5/2/14
A cystoprostatectomy specimen comprising bladder (measuring 78 mm supero-
inferiorly x 68 mm transversely x 62mm antero-posteriorly), prostate (measuring 38
mm supero-inferiorly x 54 mm transversely x-45 mm antero~
posteriorly), perivescular fat up to 45 mm in depth and right and left ureteric stumps
each approx. 35 mm long.
On opening the bladder, there is a tumour on the left lateral wall extending onto the
dome measuring 42 mm
maximum dimension and 18 mm maximum depth. The extent of invasion cannot be
ascertained. The distance to
left pelvic surgical resection margin is approximately 12 mm. The background
bladder mucosa appears normal.
The prostate shows some nodularity. A lymph node measuring 20 mm in maximum
dimension is located deep to the tumour.
Please note
The resection margins and lymph nodes associated with this surgical procedure have
been processed as
MICROSCOPY
Please note
The following report includes the findings from the resection margins and lymph
nodes processed as
Tl>> tumour in the bladder is a poorly differentiated (Grade 3) urothelial carcinoma. It
arises from the surface and
invades through muscle to reach just beyond the muscularis propria into the
extravesical fat. No unequivocal
evidence of lymphovascular invasion is seen. The background bladder urothelium
shows a focus of cystitis
cystica.but no metaplasia, dysplasia or intraepithelial neoplasia.
The left and right ureteric resection margins show no evidence of tumour and are
lined by normal urothelium. The
urethral resection margin is free of tumour.
The closest peripheral surgical margin lies 11 mm on the left.
The left prostate gland contains-extensive prostatic microacinar adenocarcinoma,
extending from the apex to
the middte of the gland. A small focus is present in the right apex. There is perineural
involvement within the
capsule but no evidence of extracapsular tumour. The prostatic adenocarcinoma has
been fully excised with no
evidence of tumour at intraprostatic or extraprostatic surgical resection margins. The
urethral resection margin
shows no prostatic or urothelial carcinoma.
A total of 21 lymph nodes have been identified (3 x perivesical; 1 x right ext. iliac; 1
x left obturator; 2 x left ext.
iliac; 5 x left int. iliac; 3 x right int. iliac; 0 x left common iliac). none of which
contain metastatic urothelial
carcinoma. However, two nodes show metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma (1 out of 3
perivesical, near
right ureter; 1 out of 5 left int. iliac).
SUMMARY
Bladder urothelial carcinoma, Grade 3 pT3a pN0 pMx.
-
Prostate - adenocarcinoma, bilateral, Gleason grade 4 + 3 = 7 (tertiary pattern 5) pT2c
pN1 pMx
Pathologists:
DR
DR
PATHOLOGIST
CONSULTANT
,
Tu 1/10/14
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIE
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALEJED
5
