UUID:1159E2EF-6407-4D90-8ED6-7AB04CF4FB32
TCGA-A7-A26H-01A-PR
Date Coll:
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos
Site: breast, Nus
C50.9
850013
tw
4/27/11
DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
SPECIMEN
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast (arrow points up)
C.
Right axillary sentinel node
D.
Right axillary sentinel node #32 active in blue
E.
Right breast (arrow points up).
F. Left axillary contents
CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:
Bilateral breast.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A) Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy: One lymph node,
positive for carcinoma.
C. Sentinel lymph node,
negative for carcinoma.
ALA,
psy: One lymph node,
D. Sentinel lymph node, right axılla #2, biopsy: One lymph node,
negative for carcinoma.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left axillary sentinel
noand consists of a yellow and red piece of soft tissue measuring
2.5 x 2 x 0.8 cm.
On cut section there is a contained lymph node
measuring 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension. The node is bis nd and
submitted all for frozen section diagnosis as requested.
B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left breast
arrow points up" and consists of a breast resection
specimen measuring 19.5 x 18.5 x 3.0 cm. There is an overlying
white ellipse of skin measuring 16 x 9.3 cm. There is a central
areola measuring 3 x 4 cm. and a central nipple measuring 1.2 x 1 x
0.4 
cm.
There is an arrow incised in the skin and there is an area
of induration at the superior edge of the areola that might be a
biopsy scar. It measures 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The deep surface of the
specimen is inked. The breast is sectioned at 1 cm. intervals in
the deep surface towards the skin. Some blue-domed cysts are
present. There is a relatively central red area compatible with a
biopsy site defect and there is some firmness around this area. The
firm area measures 1.5 x 1.5 x approximately 1.5 cm. This area is
central and 
inferior and there is another area that is central below.
the indurated part of the skin that looks like carcinoma grossly and
measures 1.2 x 1.5 x approximately 1.5 cm. A portion of the larger
area is taken for research purposes. Sections after fixation.
Block summary:
1,2 nipple and skin with tumor; 3 deep margin; 4-6
biopsy site; 7-10 quadrants (UO, UI, LO, LI)
C.
Received unfixed labeled "right axillary sentinel node"
and consist of two pieces of yellow and red soft tissue
measuring 2 x 1.8 x 0.7 cm. and 2.5 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm. There is a
contained lymph node measuring 1 cm. in greatest dimension and the
entire 
node is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as requested.
D.
Received unfixed labeled "right axillary sentinel node
#2 active in blue" and consist of a yellow, red and blue
piece of soft tissue measuring 5.5 x 3 x 0.6 cm.
There is a
partially blue contained lymph node measuring 2.3 cm. in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted all for frozen section
diagnosis as requested.
E. [The original gross dictation on specimen E. is lost.] The
specimen was received unfixed labeled right breast and consisted of
a 27 x 19 x 4.5 cm breast resection specimen with overlying ellipse
of skin measuring 16.5 x 9 cm. There was a central areola and
nipple. An area of arrow was incised to the skin. Some blue dye and
injected. The deep surface the specimen was inked and the breast
resection at 1 cm intervals from the deep surface towards the skin.
There was a central biopsy site and additional relatively central
firm area compatible with carcinoma.
Block summary:
-
1,2 nipple; 3 skin; 4 deep margin; 5-7 biopsy
site; 8,9 area resembling tumor; 10-13 quadrants (UO.UI.LO.LI)
F. The specimen was received unfixed, labeled "left
axillary contents" and consists of a yellow and pink of
soft tissue measuring 12 x 8 x 2 cm. RS-2.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Metastatic carcinoma is present in one lymph node. The tumor is
0.7 cm in diameter. No extranodal tumor is seen.
B.
Invasive carcinoma
Tumor type: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma
Tumor grade: 1 (Elston SBR grade; A/N/M =
Mitotic index: 3 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.196 sq mm)
Tumor size: 1.5 cm
Vessel invasion:
Absent
Calcification: Absent
pTNM stage: T1 pNla
Prognostic markers: Requested
2/2/1)
Nipple: Carcinoma is present in skin adjacent to the nipple
Deep margin: Negative for malignancy
Nontumorous breast: Sections from the biopsy site away from
the tumor show scar, cyst formation, columnar metaplasia,
benign calcification, usual ductal hyperplasia and focal atypical
ductal hyperplasia.
C. A Single lymph node is negative for malignancy
D. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
E.
Invasive carcinoma
Tumor type: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma
Tumor grade: 2 (Elston SBR grade; A/N/M = 3/2/1)
Mitotic index: 3 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.196 sq mm)
Tumor size: 1.2
cm on the glass slide
Vessel invasion: Absent
Calcification: Absent
PTNM stage: T1
Prognostic markers: See previous biopsy
The tumor is specimen E from the right breast has a central fibrotic
focus.
Primary
Bilateral
beast et
Sections near the biopsy site away from the gross carcinoma
described above show columnar metaplasia, usual ductal hyperplasia,
cyst formation apocrine metaplasia. An atypical area is p63
positive.
F. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes.
4x6,25x3,20,14x3
DIAGNOSIS
A. Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma in
a single lymph node
B. Breast, left, resection: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, Elston
SBR grade 1
C. Sentinel lymph node, right axilla, biopsy: A single lymph node is
negative for malignancy
D. Sentinel lymph node #232, right axilla, biopsy: A single lymph node
is negative for malignancy
E. Breast, right, resection: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, Elston
SBR grade 2 F. Lymph nodes, left axilla, biopsy: There is no
evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes
ectronic Signature)
End Of Report
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous frinary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
No
QUALIFIED
DIFQUALIFIED
the 4/27/11
