UUID:63F5F3D8-6393-4DA7-BB74-7D587199D7FD
TCGA-A7-A3IY-01A-PR
Redacted
Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Breast, right, excisional biopsy: Invasive mucinous carcinoma,
Nottingham grade 1
Note: The inked margins are negative for malignancy. Carcinoma is
focally 0.3 mm from the superior margin.
B. Breast, right, new lateral margin, biopsy: Fibrocystic changes.
Negative for malignancy.
C. Sentinel lymph node, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy.
Microscopic Description:
A.
Invasive carcinoma:
Carcinoma, invasive Mucinous 848013
Histologic type: Mucinous carcinoma
Nottingham grade: 1
Site
Architectural score: 1
Nuclear score:
1-2
ICD-0-3
breast, Nos
050.7
لسل
12/8/11
Mitotic score: 1
Mitotic index: 1 mitoses/ 10 HPFs (1 HPF = 1.96 sq. mm)
Tumor size: 1.3 cm
Specimen margins: Negative for malignancy. Carcinoma is focally.
0.3 mm from the yellow (superior) inked margin in block
A1.
Vessel invasion: Absent
Calcification: Absent
Non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes including apocrine
TNM stage: Tlc
metaplasia, cyst formation, intraductal epithelial
hyperplasia without atypia, columnar metaplasia, benign
calcification and intraductal papilloma.
Prognostic markers: See previous biopsy
B. sections of the right breast lateral margin specimens show focally
florid intraductal epithelial hyperplasia without atypia and other mild
fibrocystic changes. The specimen is negative for malignancy.
C. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
[At the request of some staff oncologists and in keeping with the
opinion of some experts in breast pathology, immunohistochemical stains
for keratin were not used on the sentinel lymph node sections in this
case. These stains can be obtained if desired. Our paraffin blocks
are retained for 10 years. (Weaver DL et al. New Engl J Med 364:412,
2011. Schwartz GF et al. Cancer 94(10):2542, 2002)].
Specimen
A. Right breast tissue long lateral short superior
B. Right breast lateral margin
C. Sentinel lymph node
Clinical Information
Mucinous carcinoma
Gross Description
The specimen is received unfixed in a Transpec container labeled right
breast tissue long lateral short superior it consists of a yellow piece
of soft tissue measuring 6.3 by 4.6 cm. The external surface the
specimen is inked as indicated below.
Anterior: Red
Posterior: Orange
Lateral: Blue
Medial: Green
Superior: Yellow
Inferior:
Black
There is a palpable mass in the specimen measuring 1.5 cm in diameter
the external palpation on cut section the mass 1.3 cm in diameter and
has a mucoid appearance. A portion of the tumor is taken for research
purposes. Sections after fixation. RS8
Received unfixed labeled right breast new lateral margin short anterior
long lateral is a piece of yellow and red soft tissue measuring 6.2 x
2.5 x 1 cm. The external surface the specimen is exhibited below.
Anterior: Red
Posterior: Orange
Lateral: Blue
Medial: Green
Superior: Yellow
Inferior: Black
Sections after fixation. RS7
Specimen C. is received in formalin labeled central lymph node and
consists of a piece of yellow soft tissue measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm.
AS-2
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous mary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: A
to 12/8/11
