ICD-0-3
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nos 8120/3
Site: bladder, wall, anterior 067-3
Operative Procedure:
Radical cystectomy
Specimen Received:
A: Distal left ureter (FS)
B: Distal right ureter (FS)
C: Bladder and uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries
D: Tissue near uterus
E: Right pelvic lymph nodes
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Distal left ureter margin, excision for frozen section A:
Negative for tumor.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
B. Distal right ureter margin, excision for frozen section B:
Negative for tumor.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
C. Urinary bladder, anterior exenteration:
Tumor histologic type:
Variant histology (%):
transitional cell carcinoma (5%)
Urothelial carcinoma
Micropapillary carcinoma (90%) and
7.5 cm (greatest dimension)
Additional dimensions: 6.5 x 4 cm
Tumor size:
Grade (WHO
fu 2/5/17
UUID:6C700249-6A70-45C6-834B-DF271748FC33
TCGA-GD-A3OP-01A-PR
Redacted
.):
High
Tumor configuration:
Associated epithelial lesions:
Microscopic tumor extension:
Lymph-vascular invasion:
Present
Invasive
None identified in sections examined
Through the urinary bladder into the uterus
Margins
Urethral: Negative
Ureteral:
Negative
Paravesical soft tissue:
Focally positive
Other (specify):
N/A
Additional pathologic findings:
None
Paravesical lymph nodes: None identified
All lymph nodes:
Metastatic carcinoma in situ present in four
lymph nodes (total number of pelvic lymph nodes = 5)
Size of largest lymph node metastasis: 1.5 cm
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
for 2/5/12 2
No
Part A is received fresh for frozen section evaluation additionally labeled
"
distal 
left ureter (FSA+X)" and consists of a segment of apparent ureter,
having a 
length of 0.8 cm and a diameter that averages 0.6 cm. There is a suture
at one 
pole and the opposing pole is shaved and submitted for frozen section
evaluation (FSA) with residual frozen section tissue submitted in cassette A1
and 
remaining tissue is submitted entirely in cassette A2.
Part B is received fresh for frozen section evaluation additionally labeled
"distal right ureter (FSB+X)" and consists of a segment of apparent ureter,
having 
a length of 0.8 cm and an average diameter of 0.5 cm. There is a suture
at one 
pole and the opposing pole is shaved and submitted for frozen section
evaluation 
(FSB) with residual frozen section tissue submitted in cassette B1
and remaining tissue submitted entirely in cassette B2.
Part C is received in formalin additionally labeled "bladder and uterus, tubes,
cervix and 
ovaries." This composite specimen has aggregate dimensions of 10.5 x
9 x 9 cm and consists 
of bladder with attached urethra, segment of bilateral
ureters, 
uterine corpus with attached cervix and "vaginal patch," as well as
bilateral 
adnexa and a moderate amount of perivesical fat. The specimen
previously had its anterior aspect over inked blue and the bladder has been
opened 
for procurement of tissues. The posterior aspect is subsequently inked
black. The bladder has 
dimensions of 4 x 4 x 4 cm to include an additional 1.5
cm in length of urethra. The uterine corpus is 3 cm in length by 3.8 x 2 cm with
an additional 
attached 2.3 cm in length of cervix, which averages 2 cm in
diameter. 
The "vaginal patch" has a length of 3.5 cm with additional width of 3
cm, 0.3 
cm in thickness. The right ovary has dimensions of 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm
with an 
overlying fimbriated fallopian tube, which is 5 cm in length and
averages 0.8 cm in diameter. The left ovary is 2.5 x 2 x 1.1 cm with an
overlying fimbriated fallopian tube, which is 5 cm in length and averages 0.6 cm
in diameter. The 
surface of the uterine corpus is remarkable for an area of
roughening
, arising within the right cornu fundic aspect, which may represent
site of removal of 
tissues (see part D). Upon further bisecting the specimen,
the bladder is 
remarkable for diffuse thickening of the bladder wall,
particularly notable on the posterior aspect with ulcerated urothelium
particularly notable on the fundic aspect posterior wall with confluent
extension involving the anterior aspect. This mass has extensive involvement of
multiple structures 
with overall estimated dimensions of 7.5 x 6.5 cm with
invasion into the uterine corpus/cervix for a depth of 4 cm and into the
anterior 
superior aspect of the bladder for a depth of 2.5 cm (see also gross
photos). This 
mass approaches to within 2.5 cm of the urethral margin of
surgical 
resection. Both the left and right ureters are grossly probe patent
with an 
average length of 6 cm, each which open into a markedly edematous
trigone. This 
tumor abuts the perivesical fat adjacent to the left
adnexa/uterine corpus. Additionally this tumor does approach the
superior/posterior aspect of the bladder adjacent to the "bladder flap" site
(
see 
cassette C11). There is no gross evidence of tumor involvement of the
surface 
of the vaginal patch or into the adnexal structures.
Sections are submitted as follows:
These lymph node candidates are submitted as follows:
F1-2
one whole lymph node bisected, one half in each cassette;
F3-4 one whole lymph node quadrisected, one half in each cassette.
Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.
END OF REPORT
Taken:
DOB:
(Age: Gender:
