UUID:4B7A7988-8259-4630-86A6-522EAFAFF078
TCGA-UY-A9PE-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
Client:
Accession #:
Visit #:
Sex:
Male
Service Date:
Received:
Location:
ICD.0.3
биле
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Carme, dal NOS
81203
Sate. Bladder wall NOS C67.9
3/30/14
A. Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
B. Left ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
C. Urinary bladder, prostate gland and bilateral seminal vesicles, cystoprostatectomy:
- Bladder:
5% squamous, per TSS.
1. Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation
extensively involving muscularis propria (Stage T2), excised; see comment.
2. No tumor identified in one lymph node (0/1).
- Prostate:
1. Invasive urothelial carcinoma focally within urethral subepithelial connective
tissue (Stage T1); see comment.
2. Urothelial carcinoma in situ involving peri-urethral ducts; see comment.
- Seminal vesicles: No tumor identified.
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identified in sixteen lymph nodes
(0/16).
E. Right external iliac lymph nodes, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma present in three
of four lymph nodes (3/4).
F. Right obturator lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identified in eight lymph nodes
(0/8).
G. Right internal iliac lymph node, biopsy: No tumor identified in one lymph node
(0/1).
Page 1 of 5
H. Left ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
I. Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
– Tumor grade: High.
- Tumor size: 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm.
- Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None. Immunostains for the vascular marker CD31 and the
lymphatic marker D2-40 were performed on block C7 and they fail to demonstrate definitive vascular
invasion.
- Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
- Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
· Margins:
->
-
-
-
Urethral margin: Negative, no tumor is present on enface frozen section margin (C1).
Right ureter margin: Negative.
Left ureter margin: Negative.
Perivesical margin: Negative (tumor is 2 mm from margin, slide C7).
- Lymph node status: Positive.
-
- total number of positive nodes: 3 (all positive lymph nodes from right external iliac).
- total number of nodes examined: 30.
- Size of largest metastasis in nodes: 11 mm.
- Extranodal extension: None.
Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bN2.
Tumor Synoptic, Urethra
The prostatic urethra contains extensive carcinoma in situ (CIS), there are several foci of detached
urothelial carcinoma within the subepithelial connective tissue with paradoxical differentiation, single
cells, and jagged borders (best seen on slide C17, level 1) consistent with superficial invasion into the
subepithelial connective tissue of the prostatic urethra. No tumor is seen invading from the bladder
wall into the prostate. No tumor is identified at the urethral margin.
-
· Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
- Tumor grade: High grade.
- Location of tumor:
Prostatic urethra: Slides C3 and C5 (CIS only).
Prostate right base: C17.
Prostate left mid: C20 (CIS only).
Prostate left base; C21 (CIS only).
- Margins: Negative, no tumor is present on enface frozen section margin (C1).
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.
- Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 30 (Assumes lymph node
metastasis from urothelial carcinoma originating in urinary bladder).
- Perineural Invasion: None.
- AJCC stage: pT1N0.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Right ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:Left ureter, biopsy (FS)
Page 2 of 5
C:Bladder and prostate (FS)
D:Lymph node, left pelvic
E:Lymph node, right external iliac
F:Lymph node, right obturator
G:Lymph node, right internal iliac
H: Final left ureter
I:Final right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
FS2 (B) Left ureter, biopsy: Focal epithelial atypia, no high-grade dysplasia, no carcinoma.
FS3 (C) Prostate urethra, biopsy: No dysplasia, no carcinoma.
Clinical History
The patient is an year-old man with bladder cancer.
Gross Description
The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-I are received in formalin.
Part A, labeled "right ureter," consists of a single, soft, unoriented ring of red tissue (0.6 x 0.4 × 0.2
cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in
cassette A1.
Part B, labeled "left ureter," consists of a single, soft, unoriented right of red-pink tissue (0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2
cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in
cassette B1.
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder and prostate." The specimen consists of a cystoprostatectomy
weighing 498 gm and measuring 21 cm right to left, 11 cm anterior to posterior, and 4 cm superior to
inferior. The right superior, anterior and lateral wall of the bladder contain a 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm, firm,
white, irregular mass. On the surface the mass is ulcerated. The mass invades 2.4 cm deep through
the muscularis propria and touches the perivesicular fat. The mass is grossly 0.2 cm from the
perivesicular margin. The mass is 8 cm from the trigone. The remaining bladder mucosa is tan-white
and unremarkable. The attached prostate measures 3.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm and contains unremarkable
white-tan, whorled parenchyma with no distinct masses. The attached seminal vesicles measure 3 x 2.5
x 1.0 cm each and are both grossly unremarkable. The perivesicular fat is thoroughly searched for
lymph nodes, and none are found.
ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks.
INTRAOPERATIVE EVALUATION: Frozen section, urethral margin FS3, cassette C1.
INKING:
- Anterior right surface: Green.
Anterior left surface: Blue.
Posterior: Black.
GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes.
CASSETTES: Cassettes are submitted as follows:
C1:
C2:
C3:
FS3 urethral margin frozen section remnant.
Ureter margins.
Distal prostatic urethra.
C4-C5:Bladder neck and trigone.
Page 3 of 5
C6-C8:Representative sections showing deepest invasion by mass in right superior-anterior and right
lateral walls.
C9:
Representative section of mass transitioning to normal.
Representative section of bladder dome.
Representative section of right inferior bladder wall.
Representative section of posterior-inferior bladder wall.
Representative section of left anterior-superior bladder wall.
Representative section of left anterior-inferior bladder wall.
C10:
C11:
C12:
C13:
C14:
C15:
Prostate, right apex.
C16:
Prostate, right mid.
C17:
Prostate, right base.
C18:
Prostate, right seminal vesicle.
C19:
Prostate, left apex.
C20:
Prostate, left mid.
Prostate, left base.
C21:
C22:
Prostate, left seminal vesicle.
Part D, additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of multiple pieces of irregular, unoriented,
yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (8 x 7 x 1.5 cm in aggregate) that contain fourteen uniformly tan-yellow soft
lymph node candidates (2.8 cm-0.7 cm). The cut surfaces of the lymph node candidates appear
homogeneous pink-tan and smooth. All lymph node candidates and representative sections of the
fibrofatty tissue are submitted as follows:
Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassettes D4-D6:
Cassette D7:
Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.
Second-largest lymph node candidate, bisected.
Third- and fourth-largest lymph node candidates, inked and bisected.
Ten intact smaller lymph node candidates.
Fibrofatty tissue.
Part E, additionally labeled "right external iliac lymph nodes," consists of a piece of irregular,
unoriented, yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (6.5 x 5 x 1.2 cm) that contains four, uniformly tan-yellow, soft
lymph node candidates (1.3 cm-0.6 cm). The cut surface of the largest lymph node candidate appears
homogeneously pink-tan and smooth. All lymph node candidates and representative sections of the
fibrofatty tissue are submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassette E2:
Cassette E3:
Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.
Three intact smaller lymph node candidates.
Fibrofatty tissue.
Part F, additionally labeled "right obturator lymph nodes," consists of multiple pieces of irregular,
unoriented, yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (4.5 x 3 x 1 cm in aggregate) that contain four uniformly
yellow-tan lymph node candidates (2.5 cm-0.6 cm). The cut surface of the largest lymph node
candidate appears homogenous light tan and smooth. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassettes F1-F2: Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette F3:
Cassette F4:
Three intact smaller lymph node candidates.
Fibrofatty tissue.
Part G, additionally labeled "right internal iliac lymph nodes," consists of multiple pieces of irregular
unoriented yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (2.5 x 2 x 0.8 cm in aggregate) that contain one yellow-tan
lymph node candidate (1.4 cm in greatest dimension). The entire specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassette G1:
Lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette G2:
Fibrofatty tissue.
Part H, additionally labeled "final left ureter," consists of an unoriented, white-tan tubular segment (1
cm length x 0.7 cm diameter x 0.1 cm wall thickness) with a suture and a metal clip at one end. The
serosal surface is smooth and unremarkable. The lumen is patent, without contents. The mucosa is
smooth, without discrete lesion. The end with the suture is inked blue. The specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette H1, after removal of the metal clip.
Part I, additionally labeled "final right ureter," consists of an unoriented, white-tan tubular segment (0.9
Page 4 of 5
cm length x 0.7 cm diameter x 0.1 cm wall thickness) with a suture and a metal clip at one end. The
serosal surface is smooth, without lesion. The mucosa is smooth and unremarkable. The lumen is
patent, without contents. The end with the suture is inked black. The specimen is trisected and entirely
submitted in cassette 11, after removal of the metal clip.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Electronically signed out on
athologist
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
A 1/22/14
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
QUALIFIE / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
d: 1224/2013
Page 5 of 5
