Collected:
Received:
Reported:
UUID:5A7EB73F-E681-46CC-B2D6-C87EEAB0AC99
TCGA-AC-A2F0-01A-PR
SPECIMEN INFORMATION
Accession #:
Acct/Reg#
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
*** ADDENDUM REPORT ***
Redacted
ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER TWO
BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: Block B2
TEST
RESULT
Criteria
Yes
REFERENCE RANGES
Diagnosis Discrepancy
DNA Analysis by Image:*
DNA Index:
1.1 (DIPLOID)
0.9-1.1 Is Diploid
<0.9 or > 1.1 is Aneuploid
Her2 Gene Amplification By FISH:
UNABLE TO BE DETERMINED
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
km t
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
KM / 6/10/11 6/3/11
Average copies per cell:
Her-2/neu:
Chromosome 17:
Ratio:
> 2.0 Her2/neu
COMMENT: This specimen falled to hybridize successfully with probes specific to Her2/neu gene and chromosome 17 alpha satellite
sequences. Non formalin and ethanol 
based fixatives as well as age and storage conditions of the specimen may contribute to unsuccessful
FISH analysis. Repeat studies are recommended if 
additional tissue becomes available from subsequent specimens.
Case interpreted by
Notes:
•
*Quantitative analysis performed using Chromavision ACIS.
The Her2/neu and CEP17 probes are manufactured by ་
The Her2/neu gene detection by Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) was performed using the LSI Her2/neu DNA probe, specific
for the Her2/neu gene locus 17q11.2-q12 and the 
CEP1 DNA probe specific for the alpha satellite DNA sequence at the centromeric
region of chromosome 17 (17p11.1-q11.1)
These tests were developed and performance characteristics determined by the
been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such approval or clearance is not
They have not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical 
purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical 
Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) of 1988 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.
Addendum Report Issued By:
ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER ONE
BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: (Preliminary test results on block B2.)
TEST
Estrogen Receptor:
Progesterone Receptor:
RESULT
Positive (95%)
Negative (0%)
KI-67 (MIB1) Proliferation Marker:
Low (<10%)
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating
Tobuler, Nos 8520/3
REFERENCE RANGES
> 4% is Positive
2-4% Is Borderline
<2% is Negative
> 4% is Positive
2-4% is Borderline
< 2% is Negative
> 20% Is High
10-20% is Borderline
<10% Is Low
Site: breast, Nos C50.9
for 1/10/11
These results were interpreted by
are completed.
An additional addendum report will follow when DNA and Her-2-neu tests
These tests were developed and performance characteristics determined by
They have not been cleared or approved by
the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such approval or clearance is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Act (CLIA) of 1988 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing
Addendum Report Issued By:
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A,B,C: Left mastectomy with left sentinel lymph node and additional lymph node for diagnosis of breast carcinoma:
"Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type:" Infiltrating lobular carcinoma.”
2. Size: 2.5 x 2 x 1.8 cm.
3. Elston modification of Bloom-Richardson grade:
a. Architectural Score:3/3.
b. Nuclear Score: 2/3.
C. Mitotic Score: 1/3.
d. Total score: 6/9 = Grade: II.
4. In-situ component: Present.
e. Amount: Less then 25%.
f. Histologic type: Lobular carcinoma in situ.
g. Architectural type: Solid.
h. Nuclear grade: II.
i.
Comedo necrosis: Absent.
5. Margin status for in situ carcinoma: Not transected.
6. Lymphovascular space Invasion: No.
7. Skin Involvement: No.
8. Are microcalcifications identified in association with tumor: No.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Is tumor transected: No.
2. Tumor distance to closest margin: 1.5 cm deep margin.
Lymph Node Status:
1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: Ten.
1
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma by gross exam or light microscopy: Sentinel, 1/2; Level I and II, 1/8.
3. Size of largest metastasis: 9 mm.
4. Extra-capsular extension of tumor: No.
Other:
1. Other significant findings: Fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia and benign calcifications.
2. Block prognostic Indicators will be obtained on paraffin block B2.
3. Correlation statement with intra-op consult or frozen section: Frozen section diagnosis sentinel lymph is confirmed by permanent
section analysis.
4. pTNM stage: T2N1MX
5. If further warts required in the future, infiltrating carcinoma is best seen in blocks B2,3,4 and 5.
D. Skin, lip, blopsy:
Benign solar lentigo (pigmented actinic keratosis).
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Left breast cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Left sentinel lymph node FS
B. Left breast tissue
C. Left lymph nodes
D. Seborrheic keratosis of lip
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
DIAGNOSIS
Electronic Signature:
CLINICAL INFORMATION
SPECIMEN DATA
A. Container A is labeled
r, A and consists of a tan-yellow firm fatty nodule, 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is trisected
and entirely submitted for frozen 
section in one cassette labeleda
B. Container B is labeled
Jr, B and consists of a 255 gram portion of left breast tissue, 14.0 x 11.0x 6.0 cm with attached tan-gray ellipse of skin,
5.0 x 4.2 cm displaying a centrally 
located flattened nipple, 0.8 cm in 
greatest dimension. The deep margin is inked and the specimen is sectioned to
reveal predominately tan-yellow lobular adipose tissue intermixed with 
moderate amounts of tan-gray dense fibrous tissue. A gray-white stellate gritty
mass is noted in the upper outer quadrant and is 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.8 
cm in greatest dimension. Samples of this mase have been submitted for genomic
studies. This mass is located 2.0 cm from the skin surface and 1.5 
cm from the deep margin. No other lesions are grossly noted. The lateral margin
displays a gray-white minute nodule possibly representing lymph node, 
0.2 cm. Representative sections submitted in eleven cassettes l
as follows: nipple-1; stellate mass-2 to 5; deep margin-6; upper inner quadrant-7; upper outer-8; lower inner-9; lower outer-10; lateral
module-
11.
C. Container C is labeled❤
consists of a tan-yellow lobular mass of adipose tissue, 11.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning
reveals eight tan-yellow firm falty nodules, 
the largest 1.5 cm. 
Samples of these nodules submitted in four cassettes labeled
D. Container D is labeledį
D and consists of a tan-gray granular raised lesion, 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The skin surface displays a mottled dark
brown discoloration. The specimen 
is inked, serially sectioned and 
entirely submitted in one cassette labeled 1(
or.
