UUID:B74BØDFB-0A6B-4E4C-A843-50130DE79C1A
TCGA-UY-A80D-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Visit #:
Sex:
Female
Accession #:
Service Date:
Received:
Soc. Sec. #:
Location:
Client:
Physician(s):
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Bladder, urethra, uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes, cystectomy, total abdominal
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
1. Invasive urothelial carcinoma,high grade,extending into outer muscularis propria,
tumor diameter 2 cm, margins negative for tumor, see comment.
2. Cervix with no significant pathologic abnormality.
- Uterus, endometrium: Sessile polyp.
- Uterus, myometrium: No significant pathologic abnormality.
-
· Uterus, serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.
3. Left and right ovaries with no significant pathologic abnormality.
4. Right and left fallopian tubes with no significant pathologic abnormality.
5. Vaginal mucosa with no significant pathologic abnormality.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection: No tumor in ten lymph nodes (0/10).
C. Right pelvic lymph nodes, resection: No tumor in eleven lymph nodes (0/11).
-
D. Left distal ureter margin, biopsy: No tumor identified.
E. Final right ureter margin, biopsy: No tumor identified.
COMMENT:
-
Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma.
-
- Tumor grade: High grade.
ICD.0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS.
8/20/3
Site Bladder NOS 167.9
7121/20/14
· Tumor size: 2 cm (tumor is present in the left superior bladder wall, right dome, and focally on the
right superior bladder wall, grossly this distance spans a region of at least 2 cm)
· Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria, within 1 mm of
peri-vesicular fat.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.
- Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: None.
Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
- Margins:
– Urethral margin: Negative; tumor is greater than 2 cm from margin.
-
- Right ureter margin: Negative; tumor is greater than 2 cm from margin.
-
- Left ureter margin: Negative; tumor is greater than 2 cm from margin.
- Perivesical margin: Negative; tumor is 0.4 cm from margin on slide A17.
- Lymph node status: Negative, total number of nodes examined: 21.
- Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bNOMX.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Bladder, urethra, uterus, and ovaries, fs
B:Lymph node, left pelvic
C:Lymph node, right pelvic
D:Left distal ureter margin
E:Final right ureter margin
Intraoperative Diagnosis
Urethral margin. biopsy: Benign squamous and urothelial mucosa, no dysplasia or carcinoma.
Clinical History
The patient is a
Gross Description
female with a history of invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder.
The specimen is received in five parts, labeled with the patient's name and medical record number. Part
A is received fresh. Parts B-E are received in formalin.
Part A is additionally labeled "bladder, urethra, uterus and ovaries." The specimen consists of a bladder
with an attached uterus, ovaries and vaginal wall. Dimensions of the whole specimen are 14 x 13.5 
× 5
cm and the weight is 250 grams. The bladder measures 8 x 6 x 4 cm. The bladder is opened anteriorly
over the midline to reveal a tan, folded mucosa with no distinct masses. The right bladder wall contains
a brown discolored region, and the posterior wall has a flattened, scarred region. The remainder of 
the
bladder mucosa is unremarkable. The bladder wall thickness measures 1.5 cm. The attached 
left 
ureter
measures 1.5 x 0.5 cm and is unremarkable. The attached right ureter measures 0.5 x 0.5 cm and is
unremarkable. The uterus measures 4 cm from cornu to cornu, 3 cm from anterior to posterior, and 6.5
cm from superior to inferior. The uterus sounds to 5.6 cm. The cervix measures 3.5 x 3 cm, and the os
is fish-mouthed and measures 0.8 cm in diameter. The endometrial surface is tan-red and grossly
unremarkable with no polyps or masses. The cervical mucosa appears unremarkable. The myometrium
and serosa surface appear normal. The right ovary measures 2 x 1.8 x 0.7 cm and has a white,
lobulated exterior with a solid yellow Interior. The right fallopian tube measures 5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm and is
unremarkable. In the left adnexa there is an attached ovary measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm with a white,
lobulated appearance and a yellow-white, solid interior. The left fallopian tube measures 6 x 0.3 × 0.3
cm and is unremarkable. The vaginal wall extends from the anterior cervix to the urethral 
margin and
measures 6.5 x 2.5 cm. The wall appears grossly unremarkable. The peri-vesicular fat is thoroughly
dissected and no definitive lymph nodes are found. The specimen is inked as follows: The left anterior
surface is inked green, the right anterior surface is inked blue, the left anterior midline cut surface 
is
black, the right anterior midline cut surface is green, the anterior surface of the uterus Is Inked black,
and the posterior surface of the uterus is inked blue. The posterior surface of the bladder is inked black.
A portion of the bladder is removed for tissue banking. The distal urethral margin is removed and
submitted as frozen section diagnosis #1. The frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette A1. The
remaining cassettes are submitted as follows:
Cassette A2:
Posterior cervix.
Cassette A3:
Posterior uterus.
Cassette A4:
Left ovary.
Cassette A5:
Cassette A6:
Cassette A7:
Cassette A8:
Cassette A9:
Cassette A10:
Cassette A11:
Cassette A12:
Cassette A13:
Cassette A14:
Left fallopian tube.
Anterior cervix.
Anterior uterus.
Right ovary.
Cassette A15:
Cassette A16:
Cassette A17:
Cassette A18:
Right fallopian tube.
Left vaginal wall.
Right vaginal wall.
Urethral margin, submitted perpendicular, and inferior vaginal wall.
Left ureter.
Right ureter.
Left side of bladder, inferior, black ink is cut surface.
Left side of bladder, middle, black ink is cut surface.
Left side of bladder, superior, black ink is cut surface.
Right side of bladder, inferior.
Cassette A19:
Cassette A20:
Right side of bladder, middle.
Right side of bladder, superior.
Cassettes A21-A22: Right posterior bladder wall.
Cassettes A23-A24:
Cassette A25:
Cassette A26:
Cassette A27:
Left posterior bladder wall.
Bladder dome.
Trigone and posterior wall of vagina.
Candidate perivesicular lymph nodes.
Part B is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node." It consists of multiple soft to firm, irregular,
bloody, pink-tan-yellow, fatty tissue fragments measuring 6.5 x 4.7 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The excess
fat is trimmed, 14 candidate lymph nodes are found ranging in size between 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm to 3.5 x
1.2 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassettes B1-B2:
Cassette B3:
Cassette B4:
Cassette B5:
Cassette B6:
Cassette B7:
Largest candidate lymph node cut in half.
Two candidate lymph nodes.
One candidate lymph node.
Two candidate lymph nodes.
Three candidate lymph nodes.
Five candidate lymph nodes.
The remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.
Part C is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes." It consists of multiple soft to firm, irregular,
bloody, pink-tan-yellow, fatty tissue fragments measuring 8.5 x 5.5 x 2 cm in aggregate. The excess
fat is trimmed, 12 candidate lymph nodes are found ranging in size between 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm to 4.2 x
1.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassettes C1-C2:
Largest candidate lymph node cut in half.
One candidate lymph node.
Cassette C3:
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
One candidate lymph node.
Three candidate lymph nodes.
Six candidate lymph nodes.
The remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.
Part D is additionally labeled "left distal ureter margin." It consists of two soft, tubular pieces of
brown-tan tissue. The larger fragment measures 1.4 cm in length and has an average diameter of 0.6
cm. The smaller fragment has a length of 1.3 cm and an average diameter of 0.7 cm. There is a
retraction aide at the end of the larger fragment. It is removed and this end is inked blue. The
fragments are serially cross sectioned to reveal patent lumen of 0.1 cm in diameter. The specimen is
entirely submitted in cassettes D1 and D2 with the larger fragment in cassette D1 and the smaller
fragment in cassette D2.
Part E is additionally labeled "final right ureter margin." It consists of a single soft, tubular piece of
brown-tan tissue measuring 2.5 cm in length and 0.8 cm in average diameter. There is a retraction
aide at one end. It is removed and this end is inked blue. The specimen is serially cross sectioned
revealing a patent lumen that ranges in diameter between 0.1 cm to 0.3 cm with the largest diameter at
the end that is inked blue. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes E1 and E2 with the inked
end in cassette E1.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
/Pathology Resident
Electronically signed out on
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAX Discrepancy
Dior Malignancy History
11/19/13.
Jual/Synchronous Primary Notad
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
YES
tio
DISQUALIFIED
11/19/2013
