UUID:33979746-6DCE-434E-86D4-16005FD5502F
TCGA-PQ-A6FN-01A-PR
Redacted
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL DIAGNOSIS
A) Ureter, left, distal margin, biopsy:
- Negative for malignancy
B) Ureter, right, distal margin, biopsy:
- Negative for malignancy
C) Urethra, margin, biopsy:
- Negative for malignancy
D) Bladder, cystectomy:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
8/20/3
of
C672
Site Lateral wall bladder
8206/17/13
Per T3S, Aquamous differentiation is ~ 467.
- High-grade urothelial carcinoma with focal squamous differentiation (WHO grade 3/3), 2.9 cm greatest
dimension, invasive through the muscularis propria and into perivesical adipose tissue, with perineural
invasion (see microscopic description)
- Focal high-grade urothelial carcinoma in-situ of bladder dome
- Extensive follicular cystitis
- Granulation tissue and chronic inflammation with urothelial regeneration, consistent with previous
biopsy site
E) Lymph node, left obturator, dissection:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
F) Lymph node, left external iliac, dissection:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
G) Lymph node, right external iliac, dissection:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
H) Lymph node, right obturator, dissection:
- Nine lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/9)
I) Lymph node, right common iliac, dissection:
- Three lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/3)
J) Lymph node, left common iliac, dissection:
- Four lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/4)
K) Lymph node, right internal iliac, dissection:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
Surgical Pathology Report
CLINICAL HISTORY
-year-old with hematuria with left bladder wall tumor.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Specimen: Bladder
Procedure: Radical cystectomy
Tumor Site: Left lateral wall
Tumor Size
Greatest dimension: 2.9 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.5 x 1.5 cm
Histologic Typeė: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma with focal squamous differentiation
Associated Epithelial Lesions: Urothelial carcinoma in-situ
Histologic Grade: High-grade
Tumor Configuration: Solid, infiltrating
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Perivesical fat
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5 mm
Specify margin: Radial
Perineural invasion: present
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Indeterminate
Staging:
Primary Tumor (PT): pT3a: Tumor invades perivesical tissue microscopically
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No lymph node metastasis
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 20
Number of Lymph Nodes Involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (PM): pMX (Not applicable)
Additional Pathologic Findings: Inflammation/regenerative changes
GROSS DESCRIPTION
Received are 11 specimens, labeled i
A) Received fresh and designated "left distal ureter," is a 0.9 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red, soft, tissue with ureter lumen,
submitted in its entirety in cassette (FSA1) for intraoperative diagnosis.
2
Surgical Pathology Report
B) Received fresh and designated "right distal ureter," is a 1x 0.4 x 0.2 cm red, soft tissue with ureter lumen,
submitted in its entirety in cassette (FSB1) for intraoperative diagnosis.
C) Received fresh designated "urethral margin," inked distal - non-inked proximal," is a 1.8 x 1 x 0.3 cm soft tissue
with urethral lumen. Submitted in its entirety in cassette (FSC1) for intraoperative diagnosis.
D) Received in formalin designated "bladder," is a bladder with 12 x 8 x 1 cm of perivesicular fat. The bladder
dome to urethra is 5.5 cm right to left is 10 cm and anterior to posterior is 5 cm. A 2 x 1.4 cm tan ulcerative lesion
with evidence of prior biopsy is identified in the anterior lateral left bladder wall, 2.4 cm from the urethral margin
and 3 cm from the left ureter orifice. The posterior surgical margin adjacent to the mass is inked black. On the cut
surface the mass is firm and tan and extends 1.5 cm from the bladder mucosa into the wall and detrusor muscles.
The mass is 0.1 cm from the posterior soft tissue margin. After sectioning, the mass measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 2.9 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
(D1) Tumor to soft tissue margin
(D2-D3) Sections of tumor
(D4) Tumor to closest adjacent mucosa
(D5) Right ureteral orifice
(D6) Left ureteral orifice
(D7) Bladder neck
(D8) Dome
(D9) Right wall
(D10) Left wall
(D11) Posterior wall
(D12) Anterior wall
(D13) Trigone
(D14-D22) perivesicular fat
E) In formalin, labeled "left obturator node," are 3 cm of lobular fatty tissue with an interspersed lymph node which
is fusiform, 1 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node is submitted in its entirety as (E1).
F) In formalin, labeled "L external iliac lymph node," is a lobular fatty tissue, 5.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm, with a central
lymph node, 3.9 x 2.5 x 0.9 cm. The lymph node is submitted in its entirety as (F1-F5).
G) In formalin, labeled "R external iliac LN," is a 4 x 2.9 x 1.1 cm lymph node with abundant attached fat. The
lymph node is submitted in its entirety as (G1-G5).
H) In formalin, labeled "right obturator lymph node," are 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm with lobular fatty tissues with interspersed
lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from 0.6 cm to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are submitted in their entirety as
follows:
3
Surgical Pathology Report
(H1) Two lymph node candidates
(H2) Two lymph node candidates
(H3) One bisected lymph node
(H4) Multiple lymph node candidates
I) In formalin, labeled "R common iliac lymph node," are fatty tissues, 2.5 cm in aggregate, with interspersed lymph
nodes up to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto, one block as (11).
J) In formalin, labeled "L common iliac lymph nodes," are multiple lymph nodes up to 1.1 cm with abundant
attached fat. The lymph nodes are submitted as (J1-J2) in toto.
K) In formalin, labeled "R internal illac LN," is a 2.9 x 2.5 x 0.9 cm encapsulated nodule suggestive of a lymph
node with moderate attached fat. The cut surface is pink and homogeneous. In its entirety as (K1-K3).
riteria
Yes
NOT
siagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tunior Site Discrepancy
PAA Discrepancy
Maleriny His ory
sary toted
IALIBUS
DISQUALIFIED
MG 10/13/13
М
TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05 ☑
Study Subject
ID:
Study/Site:
Event:
Interviewer:
TCGA Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma -
Carcinoma)
PathDiscrepancy
Page 1 of 1
Person ID:
N/A
(Bladder Urothelial
Age:
N/A
Date of
Birth:
Sex:
F
Tumor Identifier Provided on Initial Case
Quality Control Form
Pathologic Diagnosis Provided Focal squamous
on Initial Pathology Report
differentiation
Provide the tumor identifier documented on the initial case quality
control form for this case.
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial
pathology report for this case. If the histology for this case is mixed, provide
all listed subtypes.
Histologic features of the sample provided for
TCGA, as reflected on the CQCF
40%
squamous
Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
Provide the reason for the
discrepancy between the pathology
report and the TCGA Case Quality
Control Form
Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
Quality Control Form completed for this case.
Section submitted to TCGA had more
squamous differentiation than the
whole tumor submitted for permanent.
Name of TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository
Director
Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on
the initial pathology report for this case is not
consistent with the diagnosis selected on the TCGA
Case Quality Control Form.
Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGA.
