UUID:FB7CF869-AA10-4C3E-9BDA-5686130DB4C6
TCGA-FD-A43U-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race: White
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
Path
1CD-0-3
carcinoma, urothelial Nos
812013
CQCF Site: bladder, well, interal
0672
bladdw, Nos
067.9
w
9/29/12
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Six of twenty three lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(6/23).
- Largest nodal tumor focus measures 3 mm, with extranodal tumor extension.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- One of ten lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/10).
- Largest nodal tumor focus measures 1.4 cm, with extranodal tumor
extension.
C. Urinary bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia;
cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, see pathologic parameters.
- Tumor invades thru the bladder wall and into the perivesical fat,
periprostatic tissue and focally the prostate.
- Tumor involves the right periprostatic soft tissue margin.
- One perivesical lymph node, no tumor (0/1).
D. Left distal ureter; resection:
· Segment of ureteral wall, no tumor.
E. Distal right ureter; resection
- Segment of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade
riteris
Diagnosis Discrepancy
No
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Jual/Synchronous Primary Notes
ase is (circle):
eviewer al
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed
DISQUALIFIED
12
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue, periprostatic tissue and
prostate.
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 3.5 cm, mass involves bladder posterior, left
18/19/12
and right lateral, anterior and trigone walls and prostate.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Positive for tumor (at right periprostatic soft
tissue margin, 5 mm [slide C23]).
8. Lymph nodes: Positive for tumor (7/34).
9. pTNM: pT4a,N2,MX, R1.
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, []M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD
Clinical History:
This is a year-old man with history of urothelial carcinoma, high grade
invasive into the prostatic stroma and lamina propria. He now undergoes
cystoprostatectomy and lymph node dissection.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph nodes
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes
C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicales & vas deferens
D: Left distal ureter
E: Distal right ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in five containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "1. Right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.5 x 6 x 2.5 cm aggregate of
yellow-brown lobular tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates measuring
0.3-1.1 cm are identified.
A1-A2: 5 candidate lymph nodes
A3-A4: 6 candidate lymph nodes
A5: One candidate lymph node, bisected
A6: One candidate lymph node, sectioned
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "2. Left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 7 x 4.5 x 3 cm aggregate of
yellow-brown lobular tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates measuring
0.3-3.5 cm are identified.
B1: 4 candidate lymph nodes
B2: 5 candidate lymph nodes
B3: 3 candidate lymph nodes
B4: One candidate lymph node, bisected
B5-B8: One candidate lymph node, sectioned
B9-B11: One candidate lymph node, grossly involved by tumor, representative
sections
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "3. Bladder, prostate,
seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 17.5
x 9 x 6 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 0.2 x 6 x 4.5 cm bladder
with attached mesenteric fat and an approximately 5 x 4 x 3 cm prostate. The
right seminal vesicles measure 4.5 x 3 x 1 cm and right vas deferens measures 8
x 0.6 cm. The left seminal vesicles measures 4 x 3.1 x 1.3 cm and left vas
deferens measures 2.5 x 0.6 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 3 x 0.6 cm,
the left measures 2.2 x 0.6 cm, and both demonstrate intact, patent lumens.
The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The outer surface of the bladder is inked black. The bladder and
prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra. The capsule is absent and the
apex of the prostate is disrupted. Sectioning demonstrates ill-defined broad
areas of firm, yellow-tan indurations throughout the prostate parenchyma focally
extending to ink. The seminal vesicles demonstrate cystic cut surface with
gold-brown thick secretion. The left seminal vesicle is focally grossly involved
by the lesion.
The opened bladder reveals a red-brown lesion with shaggy and ulcerated surface
involving the entire posterior wall extending to the left and right lateral
walls as well as the inferior anterior wall. The lesion measures 3.5 x 1.5 cm.
On cut section, the bladder demonstrates firm yellow-tan cut surface grossly
consistent with tumor involvement/possible fibrosis with maximal thickness of
2.2 cm. The lesion extends through the lamina propria into the perivesicular
fat to within 0.2 cm of the ink. On one section it surrounds the right ureter.
The surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, wrinkled, tan-brown with wall
thickness of 1.3 cm. Bilateral ureteral orifices, adjacent to the trigone, are
identified and probe patent. Received separately in the same container is a 3 x
3 x 1 cm aggregate of yellow lobular adipose tissue from which one candidate
lymph node measuring 0.2 cm identified.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Distal prostatic urethral margin (apex)
C2: Right ureter resection margin
C3: Left ureter resection margin
C4: Prostatic apical margin
C5-C6: Lesion, left lateral wall, closest extension to ink
C7: Lesion, anterior wall, closest extension to ink
C8-C10: Lesion, posterior wall,
C11: Lesion, trigone
C12: Lesion, right lateral wall
C13: Lesion, surrounding right ureter
C14: Uninvolved dome
C15-C19: Left prostate, apex to base
C20: Left seminal vesicle and vas deferens
C21-C25: Right prostate, apex to base
C26-C27: Right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
C28: One candidate lymph node
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "4. Distal left ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft and rubbery, tan-pink, and
oriented, 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm tissue grossly consistent with mucosa with minimal
attached adipose tissue. A lumen is not identified. The specimen is submitted in
toto as El
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "5. Distal right ureter,
stitch on non-margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft and
rubbery, 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm tissue containing a segment of ureter with wall
thickness of 0.1 cm and a patent lumen of 0.2 cm. B. margins side is trimmed and
submitted as E1.
XX
[], M.D.
