Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
UUID:1D6D35DC-D4B8-4186-9EA4-97F53314D01B
TCGA-UY-A80B-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Visit #:
Sex:
Location:
Male
:
Accession #:
Service Date:
Received:
Client:
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Ureter, left, biopsy: No tumor.
B. Ureter, right, biopsy: No tumor.
ICD0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS 8/20/3
Site: Bladder NOS C67.9
C. Bladder and prostate and seminal vesicles, cystoprostatectomy:
- Bladder: Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma; see comment.
- Prostate: Focal atypical glands; see comment.
- Seminal vesicle: No tumor.
D. Apical margin, biopsy: No tumor.
9101/23/14
E. Pelvic lymph nodes, right, excision: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one lymph
node (1/3).
F. Pelvic lymph node, left, excision: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).
G. Final ureter, left, biopsy: Fibromuscular and vascular tissue with no tumor.
H. Final ureter, right, biopsy: No tumor.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma.
2. Tumor grade: High grade.
3. Tumor size: Gross appearance at least 1.9 cm in greatest diameter.
4. Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion through muscularis propria into perivesical tissue.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None definitively identified.
6. Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Focal areas of carcinoma in situ.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: No adjacent organs involved.
8. Surgical margins:
Urethral margin: Free of tumor.
Right ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Left ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Perivesical margin: Invasive tumor <0.5 mm to inked specimen margin.
9. Lymph nodes: 1 of 4 lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor; the largest metastatic deposit
measures 1.2 cm in greatest dimension; there is no extranodal tumor growth.
10. Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pT3aN1Mx / Stage IV.
12. Additional Comments: There is a single focus of atypical prostatic glands in the section taken as
distal urethral 
margin on the frozen section slide FS3 but this focus is no long present on the permanent
sections. A select 
slide (slide FS3) was shown at the departmental
and the
faculty in attendance concurred with the above diagnosis. No definitive prostatic or urothelial carcinoma
is present in prostate or seminal vesicles.
.
In Part A and B, the tissue is best demonstrated on the original frozen section slides and no dysplasia or
carcinoma is 
identified.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Left ureter (FS)
B:Right ureter (FS)
C:Prostate and seminal vesicles, bladder (FS)
D:Apical margin
E:Right pelvic lymph node
F:Left pelvic lymph node
G:Final left ureter
H:Final right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Left ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma.
FS2 (B) Right ureter, blopsy: No carcinoma.
FS3 (C) Urethral margin, cystoprostatectomy:
1. Atypical glands, suspicious for prostate carcinoma.
2. No urothelial carcinoma.
Clinical History
The patient is a
-year-old man who undergoes a transurethral resection of bladder tumor at another
institution. At cystoscopy, the sessile tumor was greater than 5 cm and invading into the perivesicular
fat.
Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.
Part A is additionally labeled "left ureter frozen section." It consists of a single round piece of soft,
pink-red tissue, measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as FS1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.
Part B is additionally labeled "right ureter frozen section." It consists of a single irregular piece of soft,
pink-red tissue, measuring 0.3 × 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as FS2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette B1.
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder and prostate and seminal vesicles." It consists of a bladder and
attached prostate weighing 277.5 grams and measuring 16 x 13 x 4.5 cm. The external surface has
been inked in the following manner for further histologic analysis: The left has been inked blue, the
right has been inked green, and the posterior has been inked black. The distal urethral margin has
previously been cut off for frozen section diagnosis C1. The bladder is opened revealing grossly
friable-appearing internal mucosa with one prominent mass near the trigone. The mass is white-tan
and measures 1.9 cm in greatest diameter. The mass appears well-circumscribed and partially
pedunculated. The remaining internal surface of the bladder has the friable, tan-pink appearance. The
prostate is removed and bisected into the left and right halves and subsequently serially sectioned from
the apex to the base revealing homogeneously yellow-tan interior. No obvious lesions or areas of
fibrosis are noted. Sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
The remnant from the frozen section from the distal urethral margin.
Perpendicular margins from the left apex of the prostate.
Perpendicular margins from the right apex of the prostate.
The posterior mid line apex to base of the prostate.
Section from the left half of the prostate from the apex.
Section from the left half of the prostate closer towards the base.
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Section from the left seminal vesicle.
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Cassette C11:
Cassette C12:
Cassettes C13-C14:
Cassette C15:
Cassette C16:
Cassette C17:
Cassette C18:
Cassette C19:
Cassette C20:
Section from the right prostate at the apex.
Sections from the right prostate closer towards the base.
Sections through the right seminal vesicle.
Section through the posterior right wall of the bladder.
Two sections through the anterior right bladder wall.
Additional sections through the mass at the trigone, as well as the adjacent,
grossly unaffected trigone.
Distal margin of right ureter and right vas, as well as multiple lymph node
candidates from the right perivesicular area.
Two sections from the left posterior wall of the bladder, grossly uninvolved.
Two sections from the left anterior bladder wall, grossly uninvolved.
Two sections through the left anterior trigone, including cross-sections through the
prominent mass.
Additional sections through left anterior bladder wall.
Sections through the vas and ureter from the left side.
Part D is additionally labeled "apical margin (perm)." It consists of one unoriented piece of soft tissue
measuring 1.7 x 1 x 0.4 cm. It is pink-tan with no obvious lumen. The specimen is bisected, revealing
a white-tan interior and homogeneous. Both halves are submitted in cassette D1.
Part E is additionally labeled "right pelvic, lymph node," consists of multiple soft, yellow-tan, attached
fatty tissue measuring 4 x 3.5 x 2 cm in aggregate. Three lymph node candidates are identified. The
two largest are inked black and serially sectioned. Cassettes are submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassette E2:
Smaller lymph node candidate, submitted in entirety and one of the serially
sectioned larger lymph node candidates.
Other large lymph node candidate, serially sectioned.
Part F, additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node," consists of one unoriented piece of soft, fatty
tissue, yellow-tan, measuring 6 x 2.5 x 1 cm. Two lymph node candidates are identified and submitted
in entirety in cassette F1.
Part G, additionally labeled "final left ureter," consists of one fragment of ureter measuring 0.7 cm in
length and 0.2 cm in average diameter. There is a stitch at one end, as well as some attached fatty
tissue. The specimen is bisected along its long axis revealing a grossly unremarkable internal lumen.
The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette G1.
Part H, additionally labeled "final right ureter," consists of a segment of ureter measuring 1.5 cm in
length and 0.2 cm in average diameter, as well as attached fatty tissue. There is a suture and metal
clip on one end. The specimen is bisected and along its long axis to reveal an unremarkable internal
lumen. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette H1.
attending, pathologist
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by 11/19/13 Yes
following review of all pathology slides.
riteris
agnosis Discrepancy
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
AA Discrepancy
ric Malignancy History
/Synchronous Primary Hoted
seis (Circle):
eviewer Initials
ALIFIED
AL
Date Reviewed.
DISQUALIFIED
11/19/2013
