UUID:E4ECB8AA-0ECC-47AS-B940-045A2C3D9A1A
TCGA-EW-A3E8-01A-PR
Redacted
Name:
DOB:
(Age.
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Page 1 of 3
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. SENTINEL NODE COUNT 0 AXILLA, FS:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
B. SENTINEL NODE COUNT 609 AXILLA, FS:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
C. LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY SINGLE SUTURE SUPERIOR, DOUBLE SUTURE MEDIAL:
INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA, high nuclear grade, 7.0 cm (gross examination).
Previous biopsy site.
No lymphovascular invasion identified.
Specimen margins are negative for tumor.
See Tumor Summary
D. ADDITIONAL MASTECTOMY SKIN:
No malignancy seen.
Pathology Cancer Case Summary
Specimen: Total breast (Including nipple and skin)
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes
100-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating lobular, Nos 852013
Site: breast, Nus
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Invasive Carcinoma:
Upper outer quadrant
Central
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma:
Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 7.0 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ (LCIS): Present
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive lobular carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score:
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation
Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandularAubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism
050.9
lu 10/24/11
Score 3: Vesicular nuclel, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation in size and shape,
Margins:
occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
Mitotic Count
Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 3: scores of 8 or 9
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:
Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (> 0.2 cm): 0
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Immunohistochemistry
Pathologic Staging (PTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT):
pT3: Tumor > 50 mm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis identified histologically
Distant Metastasis (PM):
Ancillary Studles:
Not applicable
Estrogen Receptor: Pending
Progesterone Receptor: Pending
HER2/neu: Pending
Page 2 of 3
results are read by a
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical anu bodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are chmcally useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11-BGFR. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection
pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Addendum Diagnosis
A. SENTINEL NODE COUNT 0 AXILLA:
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
B. SENTINEL NODE COUNT 609 AXILLA:
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
C. LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY SINGLE SUTURE SUPERIOR, DOUBLE SUTURE MEDIAL:
The tumor cell are positive for ER (>90%) and PR (>90%) and negative for HER2 (0+) by immunohistochemistry.
Intraoperative Consultation
A. Sentinel node count 0 axilla, FS: No obvious malignancy.
Final pending permanent section and perhaps IHC as original tumor was a lobular carcinoma.
B. Sentinel node count 609 axilla, FS: No obvious malignancy.
Final pending permanent section and perhaps IHC as original tumor was a lobular carcinoma.
Page 3 of 3
Clinical History:
Biopsy proven multifocal carcinoma left breast.
Please evaluate margins and if sentinel nodes are H&E (-), do serial sections and IHC.
Operation Performed
Left total mastectomy, Sentinel node biopsy, possible axillary node dissection
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Infiltrating lobular carcinoma left breast
Specimen(s) Received:
A: SENTINEL NODE COUNT 0 AXILLA, FS
B: SENTINEL NODE COUNT 609 AXILLA, FS
C: LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY SINGLE SUTURE SUPERIOR, DOUBLE SUTURE MEDIAL
D: ADDITIONAL MASTECTOMY SKIN
Gross Description:
A.
8.
Received fresh labeled "Sentinel node count 0 axilla" is a tan piece of tissue measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in
toto in 
one cassette for frozen section.
Received fresh labeled " Sentinel node count 609 axilla" is a piece of soft tissue with areas of adipose tissue that
measures 
3.0 x 2.5 x 0.4 cm. Submitted in toto in one 
cassette for frozen section.
C.
Received fresh labeled "Left breast mastectomy, single suture superior, double suture medial" is a one kelo left modified
radical mastectomy that measures 18.0 x 12.0 
x 6.0 cm. There is a white skin ellipse that measures 7.0 x 3.0 cm and a
nipple that measures 1.8 cm in diameter. There 
are two sutures. The single suture is superior and the double suture is
medial. The specimen is inked in black. 
Upon sectioning, there are diffuse areas of white nodularities throughout the
parenchyma. There is a firm, white nodular lesion 
that extends 2.0 cm away from the lateral margin to the midline. It
measures 7.0 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm and it is 1.0 
cm away from the deep margin, 4.0 cm from upper margin, 5.0 cm from the
lower margin. Adjacent to the upper pole of 
the lesion previously described, there is another irregular shaped lesion,
probably from a previous biopsy site 
that measures 6.0 × 5.0 x 3.0 cm. It is located 2.0 cm away from the superior
margin, 1.5 
cm from the deeper margin, 5.0 cm from the 
inferior margin, 2.0 cm from the anterior margin. No other
grossly identified. There 
are 2/3 of stroma and 1/3 of adipose tissue. Sections submitted as follows:
lesions are
Cassette #1
Cassettes #2-6
Cassette #7
Cassette #8
Cassette #9
Nipple
Several sections of tumor
Sections of tumor in relation to the superior margin
Deeper margin
D.
Portion of retro-areolar area
Cassettes #10&11 Superior inner quadrant
Cassettes #12&13 Inferior inner quadrant
Cassettes #14&15 Superior outer quadrant
Cassettes #16&17 Inferior outer quadrant
Received in formalin labeled "Additional mastectomy skin" is an irregular piece of skin tissue measuring 14.0 x 7.0 x 1.2
cm. The 
specimen is white, pink and there were no abnormal 
lesions grossly identified. The specimen is not oriented.
Representative sections are submitted in two cassettes
.
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
TX QUALIFIED
/ DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: OKY
10/static
