ICD-0
-
3
Carcinoma, urothelial, 8120/3
Nos
Case Number:
Site bladdu NoS
0679
2/18/11
Collection Date:
سلام
Surgical Pathology Report
-
Diagnosis:
FSA: Urethra, margin, biopsy.
Scant urothelium, without urothelial dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.
- Small acinar proliferation, without prostatic invasive adenocarcinoma (see Light Microscopy)
B: Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy.
- Bladder:
- Invasive urothelial carcinoma, high grade (WHO/ISUP classification), at least 3.5 cm diameter, involving
anterior wall, dome, and posterior wall, with extension through muscularis propria into posterior perivesical
fat, inked surgical margins not involved.
- Ureter, right - no dysplasia or carcinoma identified
- Ureter, left - not identified
-
-
-
- Prostate:)
Adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 3+3, involving left apex and right mid, involving 10% of gland, without
angiolymphatic or extracapsular invasion, inked surgical margins not involved.
Seminal vesicles, bilateral - No carcinoma identified.
Vas deferens, bilateral - No carcinoma identified.
C: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision.
No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/3).
D: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/8).
E: Foreign object, abdominal cavity, removal.
- Fat necrosis and peripheral fibrosis.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative frozen section was requested
FSA1: Urethra margin, biopsy
- Benign urothelium, no tumor seen
Clinical History:
UUID:B3A36579-3E87-408D-AC04-19A8136E1E7A
TCGA-CU-AØYN-01A-PR
Redacted
bladder cancer with a clinical diagnosis of bladder cancer undergoes cystoprostatectomy with ileal conduit
and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.
Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.
Container A is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis, additionally labeled "urethral margin" rule out
cancer and holds a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm aggregate of tan/red irregular soft tissue fragments with cautery
artifact. The specimen is totally submitted as FSA1.
Container B is additionally labeled "bladder and prostate". The specimen was received in the fresh state for
acquisition by tumor procurement services, who obtained portions of tumor and uninvolved urinary bladder.
Specimen fixation. Formalin
Type of specimen(s) received: Cystoprostatectomy
Size of urinary bladder: Approximately 8 x 9 x 4.2 cm; size of specimen 10.8 x 9.1 x 4.2 cm
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
X
☑
Primary Tumer Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 1
Revieve th
Tumor size: 3.5 × 3 × 2.5 cm
Tumor location: Anterior wall, posterior wall, and dome. The deepest extent of tumor invasion is in the
posterior wall and these areas are preferentially sampled and represented in blocks involved by tumor. The
tumor mass appears unifocal with a papillary appearance and has a yellow/tan appearance with possible
areas of hemorrhage and necrosis.
Other mucosal lesions: The uninvolved portions of bladder wall, predominantly the posterior wall show
edema. Otherwise, the mucosa is tan and coarsely folded. The trigone has some focal hyperemia.
Gross description of other organs or structures: There is an attached prostate (4.7 x 3 x 2.5 cm). The
seminal vesicles are not identified. The urethral margin has been previously sampled and submitted for
frozen section. The specimen is inked such that the apex of the prostate is inked yellow. The posterior wall
of the bladder is inked black and the anterior wall is inked blue.
Digital photograph taken:
Block Summary:
B1 Right ureter at stapled margin
-
B2 Right lateral wall including right ureter orifice
B3 - Possible left ureter margin (? ejaculatory duct margin) both have staples
Not dictated
B4
-
B5 Representative section of uninvolved posterior wall
B6 - Uninvolved representative section of anterior bladder wall
B7 Representative section of trigone
B8 Additional tumor, anterior, left lateral wall
B9 - Representative full thickness section of the posterior wall including bladder lumen and area of possible
neuro hemorrhage and necrosis/tumor involvement
B10 Not dictated
B11 Portion of neuro necrosis with tumor involvement
B12-B13 - Additional representative sections of tumor
B14 Left prostate apical margin, radial sections
B15 Right prostate apex margin, radial sections
B16 Left lobe of prostate, mid prostate
B17 Right lobe of prostate, mid prostate
B18-B27 Additional unoriented blocks from prostate
B31
Right ureter candidate
B32 Left ureter candidate
Container C is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and holds a 3.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm portion of fibrofatty
tissue within which at least 1 lymph node is palpated. The specimen is bivalved and submitted as blocks C1
and C2, NTR.
Container D is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and holds a 3.5 x 2 x 0.7 cm portion of fibrofatty
tissue within which lymph nodes are palpated. The specimen is divided into two pieces. Piece one is
bivalved and submitted as block D1 and piece two is bivalved and submitted as block D2, NTR.
Container E is additionally labeled "foreign object abdominal cavity" and holds a firm white ovoid portion of
tissue (2.3 x 2 x 2.5 cm). The cut surface is firm and smooth with a central sphere of encapsulated hard
yellow/brown material. A portion is submitted for decalcification and submitted as block E1.
The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. Permanent sections of FSA (urethral margin) ow focal small
caliber prostatic glands. High molecular weight cytokeratin shows no basal cell loss, lending no support for
prostatic adenocarcinoma.
Specimen B:
Bladder primary:
Tumor histologic type: urothelial
Tumor histology grade (WHO classification): high
Microscopic tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.5 cm diameter grossly
Microscopic extent of invasion: through muscularis propria into perivesical fat (block B9)
Focality of tumor: unifocal
Angiolymphatic space invasion: not identified
Presence/absence of intraepithelial abnormality: high grade papillary carcinoma present
Ureters: R negative L not identified on repeated attempts
Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Negative (Scant ink in block B9 is interpreted as contamination rather than surface inking.)
Ureter, left: not identified on repeated attempts
Ureter, right: negative
Urethra: negative (including negative HMW CK immunostain to exclude prostate adenocarcinoma)
Paravesicular soft tissue: negative
Other significant findings: none
Lymph nodes: 0/11
Diagnoses of other organs or structures: Prostate adenocarcinoma, Gleason 3+3 (see below)
AJCC Staging (Bladder):
pT3a
PNO
pMx
This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive
review of all available information is recommended to determine final staging.
Prostate primary:
Tumor histologic type: adenocarcinoma
Tumor grade (Gleason system): 3+3
Approximate percentage of prostate involved by tumor: 10%
Extent of tumor:
Location of tumor involvement in prostate: L apex (B14) and R mid (B19-21)
Confinement/non-confinement of tumor within the prostatic capsule: confined
Location of extracapsular tumor involvement:
Type of extracapsular tissue involved within tumor:
Angiolymphatic space invasion: not identified
Seminal vesicles: not involved
Vas deferens: not involved
Histologic assessment of surgical margins: negative
Other significant findings: bladder carcinoma (see above)
Lymph nodes: (0/11 pelvic nodes total)
AJCC Staging:
pT2c
PNO
pMx
This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive
review of all available information is recommended to determine final staging.
Signature
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).
