UUID:80EDDCAC-B87B-47E6-A48C-F166D227DA6C
TCGA-A7-A6VX-01A-PR
Redacted
Final Surgical Pathology Report
ICD-0-3
duct NOS
Caranoma, infiltrating duct 3
Site ①Breast NOS 2509
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph node, excision:
No evidence of metastasis in 2 lymph nodes (0/2).
Left breast, excisional biopsy:
B.
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, grade 3, 2.5 cm, extending to within
0.5 mm from the inferior margin of resection.
Ductal carcinoma in situ, comedo and solid subtypes, nuclear grade 3
with necrosis, extending to posterior margin.
Microscopic Description:
Microscopic examination performed.
A.
Sections of the left axilla sentinel lymph node demonstrate 2 lymph
nodes with no evidence of metastasis. The nodes are examined by
multilevel sectioning with hematoxylin and eosin, as well as by
immunohistochemistry for pankeratin
B. Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type: infiltrating ductal carcinoma
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 3
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 2
Greatest dimension (PT): 2.5 cm, pT2
Specimen margins: extremely close, < 0.5 mm to black ink,
(inferior margin)
Vessel invasion: not identified
Calcification: present
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Histologic pattern:
Nuclear grade: 3
comedo and solid
Central Necrosis: present
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): <10%
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): absent
Specimen margins: positive, in situ carcinoma at orange ink (
posterior margin)
Prognostic markers: see outside report
Specimen
A.
Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast biopsy long suture anterior short superior
Clinical Information
year-old black female with left breast cancer
Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "left axillary sentinel node" is a 3.4 × 3.0
x 1.5 cm portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue which
contains two rubbery tan-pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
averaging 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The lymphoid tissues are
bisected and entirely submitted independently in 2 blocks.
07/25/13
labeled
B. Received fresh and subsequently placed in formalin at
"left breast biopsy" is a 6.2 cm (medial to lateral) by 5.3 cm
(anterior to posterior) by 3.0 cm (superior to inferior) soft,
lobulated tan-white-gold portion of fibroadipose tissue with 2 sutures
as stated previously. The margins are inked as follows: Superior blue,
inferior black, anterior green, and posterior orange. The specimen is
sectioned from medial to lateral. There is a 2.5 cm (medial to
lateral) by 2.0 cm (anterior to posterior) by 1.9 cm (superior to
inferior) rubbery tan-white tumor mass within the lateral half of the
specimen. The tumor focally approaches the superior margin to within
0.2 cm. The remaining cut surfaces consist predominantly of soft,
lobulated tan gold adipose tissue with a scant amount of interspersed
delicate tan-white fibrous tissue. A representative portion of tumor
and a representative portion of normal parenchyma are submitted for
tissue procurement as requested.
Summary: 1 - perpendicular sections medial margin, 2 through 9 -
sequential sections including entire lesion, 10 - perpendicular
sections lateral margin
riteria
iagnosis Discrepancy
w 7/13/13
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
ual/Synchronous Primary Noted
ase is (circle):
QUALIFIED
eviewer initials N
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
_Date Reviewed: 4/11/13
✓
