UUID:E9828A9C-1DD0-45ED-A033-32140DB0C2A2
TCGA-FD-A43S-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Female
DOB:
Race: White
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
CQCF
IED - O 3
carcinuma, Wrothelial, Nos 8120/3
どしたり
Situ: bladder wall, pasteion (07.4
Path: Site: bladdw, well, Nos
bu
9/27/2
C67.9
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- Fifteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/15).
B. Left pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- Eleven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/11).
C. Urinary bladder; cystectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation, see
pathologic parameters.
-
- Tumor invades thru the bladder wall and into the perivesical fat.
- All margins of resection, free of tumor.
D. Distal left ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
E. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
riteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
'rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primare Noted
ase (circle
teviewers
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
✓
DISQUALIFIED
No
8/17/12
<10% squirmons per TSS. 9/7/12
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary mass, 2.5cm, involving posterior wall, left
lateral wall, and trigone.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/26).
9. pTNM: pT3b,NO,MX.
سر
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
97/12
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD
Clinical History:
This is a
-year-old woman with a history of papillary urothelial carcinoma,
high grade invading into the muscularis propria, now undergoing cystectomy.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Bladder
D: Distal left ureter
E: Distal right ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in five containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "1. Right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a lobulated yellow and brown,
5.7 x 4.8 x 2 cm tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates measuring
0.2-2.5 cm are identified.
A1: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A2: 5 candidate lymph nodes
A3: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A4: 1 candidate lymph node, biseted
A5-A6: One candidate lymph node, bisected
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "2. Left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a lobulated yellow and dark
brown 7 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates are
identified measuring 0.3-3.3 cm.
B1: 5 candidate lymph nodes
B2: 4 candidate lymph nodes
B3: One candidate lymph node, bisected
B4-B5: One candidate lymph node, bisected
B6: Section of fibroadipose tissue
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "3. Bladder". Received
fresh and place in formalin is a 150 g cystectomy specimen with overall
measurements of 13.5 x 12 x 3.8 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.5 x 0.5
cm, and the left measures 1.8 x 0.4 cm. The right ureter is patent to the
surgical margin. The serosal surface shows yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue
with focal cautery artifact. The urethral margin is inked black, and the
bladder is inked blue on the right half (including right ureteral stump) and
black on the left half. The specimen is opened anteriorly to reveal a 2.5 x 2.0
cm centrally ulcerated mass occupying the posterior wall and left lateral wall
extending to within 0.5 cm from the left ureter orifice. The left ureter orifice
is only patent in the most proximal 0.5 cm. On cut section, the mass is firm
and displays tan-yellow cut surface with focal hemorrhagic discoloration. The
mass extends into and through the muscularis propria and is close to the black
ink. The surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled and pink-tan with a wall
thickness of 1.6 2.1 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Distal urethral margin
C2: Right ureter resection margin (blue) and left ureter resection
margin
C3-C6: Closest extension of mass to ink
C7: Mass in trigone
C8: Section of mass and adjacent left ureteral orifice
C9: Uninvolved anterior wall
C10: Uninvolved dome
C11: Uninvolved right lateral wall
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "4. Distal left ureter,
suture on non-margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an oriented
square shaped 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm portion of tissue with dark brown and yellow
tissue on one surface and pale tan-pink apparent mucosa on the other surface. A
lumen is not identified. The margin side is trimmed and submitted as D1. The
remaining tissue is free of tumor involvement grossly..
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "5. Distal right ureter,
suture on non-margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an
oriented, dark brown and yellow segment of ureter measuring 2.1 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm.
The margin side is trimmed and submitted as El. The remainder of the specimen is
sectioned revealing maximal wall thickness of 0.2 cm and a pinpoint lumen with
no gross involvement by tumor.
XX
[ ] M.D.
