UUID:2BE28F5D-2DBB-476F-9AFF-6B2103ECFOCE
TCGA-A7-A0CG-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct and lobular 8522/3
Site: breast, Nos C50.9
w 9/3/11
SPECIMEN
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node
B.
Left axillary sentinel lymph node
C. Right breast biopsy stitch is long anterior, short superior
D. Left breast biopsy
superior
E.
Superior margin
CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY:
-
long stitch anterior, short stitch
long stich anterior, short stitch superior
-year-old white female with lobular carcinoma.
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer. POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left
breast cancer.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
AFS1-AFS3:
Right axillary sentinel node.
-No metastasis identified in 4 nodes. ( 0/4)
BFS1, BFS2: Left axillary sentinel lymph node, excision.
-No metastasis identified in 1 node. (0/1)
GROSS DESCRIPTION
medical
A. Container A is labeled with the patient's name,
record number and "right axillary sentinel lymph node".
The specimen container holds a single piece of fibrofatty tissue.
When dissected, there are four separate lymph nodes. The largest
measures 1.8 × 1.5 x 1 cm. The remainder three smaller lymph nodes
average 0.3 cm. AS-AFS1, AFS2 One lymph node bisected; AFS3
three remaining nodes.
-
-
B. Container B is labeled "left axillary sentinel lymph
node". The specimen container holds a single rubbery tan
lymph node, measuring 1.5 x 1 x 1 cm. AS-Block BFS-1, BFS-2
Bisected.
C. Container C is labeled with the patient's name,
medical
GROSS DESCRIPTION
-
record number and "right breast". The specimen container
holds a single piece of fatty tissue, oriented by two sutures and
measuring 5 cm. from medial to lateral, 3.1 cm. from anterior to
posterior and 3 cm. from superior to inferior. The specimen
margins
are inked as follows:
superior,
Blue-anterior, black-posterior, red-
green-inferior, yellow-medial, orange-lateral. The specimen is
serially sectioned. On cut section, there is a firm tan mass,
measuring 2.1 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm., located approximately 3 mm. from the
inferior margin of resection.
cm
the
ASC1-C15.
D. Received fresh labeled "left breast biopsy" is a 4.5
(anterior to posterior) x 4.3 cm (medial to lateral) x 2.1
cm (superior to inferior) diffusely cauterized soft, lobulated,
tan-gold-white portion of fibroadipose tissue with two sutures, as
stated previously. The superior surface appears in keeping with
-
-
lining of a prior breast biopsy. The margins are inked as follows:
Superior blue, inferior black, medial
green, and lateral
orange. The specimen is sectioned from anterior to posterior.
surfaces throughout the specimen consist predominantly of
glistening
Cut
lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue with a moderate amount of
interspersed dense, focally nodular, tan-white fibrous tissue. No
definitive mass lesion is noted. The specimen is entirely
submitted
in a sequential manner from anterior to posterior in 9 blocks, as
labeled. AS-9.
E. Received fresh labeled "superior margin" is a 2.5 cm
(anterior to posterior) x 1.8 cm (medial to lateral) x 1.7
cm (superior to inferior) soft, lobulated tan-gold-white portion of
fibroadipose tissue with two sutures, as stated previously. The
margins are inked as follows: Superior - blue, inferior black,
medial
green, and lateral orange. The specimen is sectioned
from anterior to posterior. The cut surfaces consist predominantly
of glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue with a
moderate
-
amount of interspersed tan-white fibrous tissue. No discrete mass
lesion or abnormality is identified. The specimen is entirely
GROSS DESCRIPTION
submitted in a sequential manner from anterior to posterior in five
blocks, as labeled.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1
-
حيت
AS-5.
Perpendicular sections entire anterior margin
cap, 2-4
sequential sections, 5
posterior margin cap.
-
perpendicular sections entire
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Sections of the right axillary sentinel lymph node
demonstrate no evidence of metastasis in four lymph nodes.
The lymph nodes in sections ASF1 through ASF3 were examined by
multi-level sectioning with H&E stain, as well as the
immunohistochemistry for pankeratin.
Sections
B.
The left axillary sentinel lymph node demonstrates no
evidence of metastatic disease in one lymph node.
BFS1 and BFS2 are examined by multi-level sectioning with H&E
staining as well as the immunohistochemistry for pankeratin.
C. The following template applies to the right breast
biopsy:
Invasive Carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Mixed infiltrating lobular and grade I ductal
carcinoma
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 1
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 1
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): 2.3 cm (pT2)
Specimen margins: Extremely close. invasive carcinoma is 0.9 mm
from the lateral margin (orange ink block C12).
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Vessel invasion: Not identified.
Calcification: Present.
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Present.
Histologic pattern: Solid.
Nuclear grade: 2.
Central necrosis: Not identified.
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): Less than 5%.
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent):
Specimen margins: Negative.
Calcification: Present.
Absent.
Description of non-tumorous breast: Extensive proliferative
changes.
Comments: None.
Prognostic markers:
Previously reported.
D. The following template applies to the left breast
biopsy.
Invasive Carcinoma:
Not identified.
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Present.
Histologic pattern: Cribriform.
Nuclear grade: 2.
Central necrosis: Not identified.
Tumor size (if pure in situ): Less than 2 mm.
Specimen margins: Negative, nearest greater than 2 mm.
Calcification: Not identified.
Description of non-tumorous breast: Extensive proliferative
fibrocystic changes and extensive lobular carcinoma in situ.
Comments: E-cadherin stain was performed and demonstrates lack of
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
membranous staining within foci of lobular carcinoma in situ in
blocks D5 and D7.
E. The following template applies to the superior margin
of the left breast.
Invasive Carcinoma: Present.
Histologic type: Mixed grade 1 ductal and invasive lobular
carcinoma.
Histologic grade:
Overall grade:
1.
Architectural score: 3.
Nuclear score: 1.
Mitotic score: 1.
Greatest dimension (PT):
1.2 cm (pT1).
Specimen margins: Positive, invasive carcinoma extends to the
green and black ink representing medial and inferior margins.
Vessel invasion: Not identified.
Calcification: Present.
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified.
Comments: Immunohistochemical stain for pankeratin was utilized on
two blocks to highlight the extent of tumor and the relationship to
the margins.
Prognostic markers:
14x2, 15x3, 4×5, 20X9
DIAGNOSIS
Previously performed.
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph nodes, resection:
No evidence of metastasis to four lymph nodes (0/4).
B. Left axillary sentinel lymph node, resection:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
C.
D.
E.
No evidence of metastasis to one lymph node (0/1).
Right breast, excisional biopsy:
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, mixed grade 1 ductal and
lobular carcinoma, 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions.
Invasive carcinoma 0.9 mm from the lateral margin.
Ductal carcinoma in situ, solid and cribriform in subtype,
nuclear grade 2, surgical margins negative.
Left breast, excisional biopsy:
Ductal carcinoma in situ, nuclear grade 2, cribriform and in
solid subtype, less than 2 mm.
In situ carcinoma 2 mm from the surgical margin.
Proliferative fibrocystic changes and extensive lobular
carcinoma in situ.
Left breast, superior margin, excisional biopsy:
Infiltrating carcinoma, mixed grade 1 ductal and invasive
lobular carcinoma, 1.2 cm.
Invasive carcinoma extends to the medial and inferior margins
of resection.
M.D, (Electronic Signature)
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tu.nor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
/ DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
19/3/11
15
