UUID:2B30A85F-7A5F-46E4-BE22-28C902D5DFA3
TCGA-AQ-A707-01A-PR
Redacted
Diagnosis:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number :
A: Breast, left, total mastectomy
Tumor type: invasive lobular carcinoma
Nottingham combined histologic grade: 2
Tubule formation score: 3
Nuclear pleomorphism score: 2
Mitotic count score: 1
Focality of tumor: single focus
ICD0.3
NOS
Carcinoma, Icular infiltrating Now
CSCE
Site ①Breast NOS C50.9
Ste Breast, overlapping lesion
Tumor site: upper outer and lower outer quadrants
9105/16/14
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.1 cm (see comment)
Lymphovascular invasion: none identified
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): none identified
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): present
Nipple involvement: not involved
Skin involvement: not involved
Skeletal muscle involvement: not applicable
Margin status:
Invasive component: Margins free of carcinoma, closest is black
inked posterior margin at 2 mm
Size of largest metastasis: 4.1 cm
Extracapsular extension: absent
Axillary lymph nodes (from parts B-G):
Total number with metastasis: 2
Total number examined: 7
Size of largest metastatic focus: 0.7 cm
Extracapsular extension: absent
Microcalcifications: associated with benign breast changes
850.9
Other pathologic findings:
-
-
Extensive stromal fibrosis with patchy amyloid deposition
- Fibrocystic changes
-
Columnar cell change
-
-
Epidermal inclusion cyst
- Previous biopsy site changes
AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: PT2 pNla
BREAST STAGE GROUPING: IIB
Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.
Ancillary studies previously performed on core biopsy case and
reported as:
Estrogen receptor: positive, 88%, 3+
Progesterone receptor: positive, 82%, 3+
HER2/neu: negative for overexpression, 0
B: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #231, biopsy
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
-
-
-
Metastatic focus measures 0.5 cm
No extracapsular extension is identified
- Amyloid present
C: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #232, biopsy
-
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
-
-
Amyloid present
D: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #233, biopsy
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
Metastatic focus measures 0.7 cm
No extracapsular extension is identified
Amyloid present
E: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #4, biopsy
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
Amyloid present
F: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #35, biopsy
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
-
Amyloid present
G: Lymph node, left axillary sentinel lymph node #36, biopsy
-
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1) based
on H & E and cytokeratin stained slides
-
Amyloid present
Clinical History:
-year-old female with left breast invasive lobular carcinoma.
Gross Description:
Received are seven appropriately labeled containers.
Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Time in fixative: 33 hours
Cold ischemic time: 71 mins
Type of mastectomy: left total mastectomy
Weight of specimen: 330 grams
Size of specimen: anterior to posterior, 2.5 cm; superior to
inferior, 19.0 cm; medial to lateral, 20.0 cm
Orientation of specimen: The specimen is oriented with a stitch
in the axillary tail.
Inking: anterior-blue, posterior=black, axillary tail-dotted
yellow
Skin ellipse dimensions: 19.0 x 5.8 cm
Nipple/areola: 1.4 cm/3.0 cm
Axillary tail: present, minimal tissue
Biopsy site: absent
Discrete Mass(es): Area of fibrotic, homogeneously firm,
white/tan tissue
Number of discrete masses: one
Size of fibrotic tissue: 7.5 cm from medial to lateral, 6.7 cm
from superior to inferior, and 3.5 cm from anterior to posterior
Location of fibrotic tissue: upper inner quadrant, upper outer
quadrant, lower outer quadrant (includes the area deep to the
nipple/areola)
Distance of mass/biopsy site from surgical margin: The fibrotic
tissue abuts the black inked deep margin extensively, it also
abuts the blue inked anterior margin in multiple slices.
Gross involvement of skin or fascia/muscle by tumor: The tumor
extends very close to the skin, however, does not appear to
grossly involve the skin.
Description of remaining breast: predominantly yellow lobular
adipose tissue
Other remarkable features: none
Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal
submitted to Tissue Procurement foundation.
Block Summary:
Al
A2
-
nipple, perpendicular sections, in relation to the tumor
nipple, perpendicular sections, in relation to the tumor
-
A3, A4 perpendicular sections of the areola, in relationship to
the deep tumor
A5,A6 representative section of the tumor, in relation to the
blue inked inferior margin
A7, A8
-
representative section of the tumor, in relation to the
black inked deep margin
A9,A10 - additional representative sections of the mass
All
representative section, upper outer quadrant
A12
A13
A14
-
-
representative section, lower outer quadrant
representative section, upper inner quadrant
representative section, lower inner quadrant
Additional sections, upper outer quadrant surrounding metallic
clip, lateral to medial:
A19
-
one section bisected
A20
-
one section bisected
A21-A22
-
one section bisected
A23-A24 one section bisected
A25 one section
A26
A27
-
one section
-
one section
A15-A18, A28-A67 additional sections from lateral towards
medial, respectively
"
A
Container B is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
sentinel lymph node #1.' Received is a single, unoriented,
yellow lobular adipose tissue fragment, 3.7 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm.
single lymph node candidate, 2.2 x 1.3 × 0.8 cm is identified
and is sequentially sectioned at 2 mm intervals. The entire
lymph node is submitted in blocks B1 and B2. Adipose tissue
remains in the container.
Container C is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
sentinel lymph node #2." Received is a single, unoriented,
brown/tan fibroadipose tissue fragment, 3.4 x 2.3 x 1.3 cm. A
single, possibly two, lymph node candidates matted together are
identified, 2.3 x 2.3 x 0.8 cm. The lymph node candidate is
serially sectioned at approximately 2 mm intervals and is
entirely submitted in blocks C1-C3. Adipose tissue remains in
the container.
Container D is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
sentinel lymph node #3." Received is a single, unoriented,
brown/tan fibroadipose tissue fragment, 1.8 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. A
single lymph node candidate, 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm is identified,
is serially sectioned at approximately 2 mm intervals and
entirely submitted in blocks D1 and D2. Adipose tissue remains
in the container.
Container E is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
sentinel lymph node #234." Received is a brown/tan, single,
unoriented fibroadipose tissue fragment, 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm. Two
lymph node candidates, 0.5 and 0.2 cm in diameter are
identified. The larger lymph node is bisected and submitted in
block El. The smaller lymph node is submitted in block E2
without sectioning.
Adipose tissue remains in the container.
Container F is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
lymph node #5.1 " Received is a single, unoriented, brown/tan
fibroadipose tissue fragment, 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. A single lymph
node candidate, 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm is identified.
The lymph node candidate is serially sectioned at approximately
2 mm intervals and entirely submitted in block Fl. Adipose
tissue remains in the container.
Container G is additionally labeled "lymph node, left axillary
sentinel lymph node #36." Received is a single, gray/tan,
unoriented, 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm lymph node candidate. The
specimen is serially sectioned, at approximately 2 mm
intervals, and entirely submitted in blocks G1 and G2,
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
PAA Discrepancy
Prier Malignancy History
9/24/13
Yes
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted DLBC
Case is (circle
Reviewer rais
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
No
✓
9/24/13
