UUID:3C301346-4594-4071-A754-04F8B3BE894C
TCGA-A7-A2KD-01A-PR
Date Coll:
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
118-0-3
carcinoma infiltrating duct, Nus
8500/3
Site breast, Nos
050.9
lu 8/24/11
SPECIMEN
A. Right breast tissue long stitch 12 o'clock, short stitch apical
node and axillary contents
B. Left breast tissue stitch marks 12 o'clock
CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right multifocal invasive breast tumor 9 o'clock
and 1 o'clock status post core biopsy
Left breast DCIS 2
o'clock and LCIS at 9 o'clock.
POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right MRM, left simple mastectomy.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
The
A. Received fresh labeled "right breast tissue and
axillary contents" is a 19.0 cm. (medial to lateral) x 16.0
cm. (superior to inferior) x 5.2 cm. (anterior to posterior) soft,
lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose tissue in keeping
with breast designated as right per requisition slip and container
and oriented by a single suture as stated previously. An 11.5 x 8.0
× 3.0 cm. portion of axillary fat extends from the lateral aspect of
the specimen. There is a 12.5 x 6.9 cm. brown portion of skin with
an eccentric, everted, 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. nipple along the anterior
aspect. On section, the nipple appears unremarkable. The intact
deep margin is inked black and the specimen is sectioned. There is
a moderately well circumscribed, 3.8 cm. (superior to inferior) x
3.5 cm. (medial to lateral) x 3.2 cm. (anterior to posterior)
rubbery tan white tumor mass at the junction of the upper and lower
inner quadrants. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
tumor is present to within 1.5 cm. of the inked deep margin and 1.0
cm. of the anterior surface of the specimen (subsequently inked
blue). Approximately 6.5 cm. lateral to the primary lesion is a
second, palpable firm tan white tumor mass measuring 2.0 cm. (medial
to lateral) x 1.8 cm. (anterior to posterior) x 1.3 cm. (superior to
inferior). The second lesion is located within the lower outer
quadrant. The second tumor extends to within 1.4 cm. of the inked
deep margin. The parenchyma between the two lesions is dense tan
white. An apparent core biopsy site is noted at the junction of the
four quadrants (see blocks 10 and 11). No additional mass lesion or
abnormality is identified. The remaining cut surfaces consist
predominantly of glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue
with a moderate amount of interspersed tan white fibrous tissue.
Located at the apex of the attached axillary dissection is a rubbery
1.4 cm. tan white lymph node (see block 16). Multiple additional
rubbery tan white to tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring up to 5 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the
remainder of the axillary fat. The largest node appears in keeping
with a matted lymphoid aggregate with tan white cut surfaces
suggestive of metastasis (see representative sections blocks 19 and
20).
Received separately within the specimen container is an
additional, ovoid, 2.5 cm. rubbery tan tissue in keeping with lymph
node. Representative sections are submitted in 24 cassettes as
labeled.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 and 2 - large tumor to inked deep margin; 3 and 4
large tumor to anterior surface (inked blue); 5 and 6 -
to adjacent parenchyma
7 -
large tumor
smaller tumor lower outer quadrant to inked deep margin; 8 and 9
remainder of smaller tumor.
10 and 11 - parenchyma between the two lesions including presumptive
prior core biopsy site; 12 - random upper outer quadrant; 13 - upper
inner quadrant; 14 - lower inner quadrant; 15 - lower outer
quadrant; 16 - bisected apical node; 17
-
three whole lymph nodes;
18 - one bisected lymph node; 19 and 20 representative from
largest (?matted) node, three sections total; 21 and 22 - bisected
separately received lymph node (one half per cassette); RR1 nipple;
RR2 skin over main tumor.
B. Received fresh labeled "left breast tissue" is a 17.5
cm. (medial to lateral) x 14.8 cm. (superior to inferior) x
4.8 cm.
(anterior to posterior) soft, lobulated tan gold-white
portion of fibroadipose tissue in keeping with breast designated as
left per requisition slip and container and oriented by suture as
stated previously. There is a 9.5 cm. (medial to lateral) × 4.4 cm.
(superior to inferior) wrinkled brown skin ellipse with an
eccentric, everted, 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. nipple along the anterior
aspect. Within 1 cm. of the superior skin margin, corresponding to
the junction of the upper inner and outer quadrants, is a 7.4 x 4.5
cm. defect which communicates with a subjacent 9.5 cm. (medial to
lateral) x 5.0 cm. (anterior to posterior) x 4.0 cm. (superior to
inferior) vacant biopsy cavity (?biopsy cavities). The cavity is
oblique traversing the lower inner quadrant, extending to the upper
outer. The cavity focally extends to within 0.8 cm. of the inked
A stellate
deep margin at its medial aspect (see blocks 1 and 2).
firm focus measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. is identified along the
deep margin 3.5 cm. inferior to the medial portion of the cavity
(see blocks 3 and 4). Residual discrete lesion is not identified
grossly along the periphery of the cavity. Margins are inked as
follows: anterior surface defect orange; inferior black and
posterior blue. The remaining cut surfaces consist predominantly of
glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue with a scant
amount of interspersed delicate tan white fibrous tissue.
Representative sections are submitted in 17 cassettes as labeled.
-
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 and 2 - biopsy cavity to closest inked deep margin;
3 and 4 bisected nodule subjacent to biopsy cavity extending to
inked deep margin (one half per cassette); 5 through 12 -
representative biopsy cavity to anterior defect and adjacent
parenchyma sequentially from medial to lateral; 13 - random upper
outer quadrant; 14 - upper inner quadrant; 15 - lower inner
quadrant; 16 - lower outer quadrant; 17 - nipple.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. This modified radial mastectomy specimen contains two
foci of invasive ductal carcinoma. The larger is in the
mid-medial portion measuring 3.8 cm. The smaller one is in the
lower outer quadrant, 6.5 cm lateral to the larger tumor.
Morphologically, they are quite similar and both of high grade.
Between the tumors, lymphovascular space invasion is present without
parenchymal invasion. The smaller tumor is also associated with
high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ. It is likely, therefore, that
these two foci represent separate primaries, even though there
remains a possibility that the smaller tumor is metastatic.
see the template below. The template incorporates the findings on
both of the tumors.
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type:
Histologic grade:
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma
Both tumors are poorly differentiated
Overall grade: Elston SBR grade 3
Architectural score: 3
Please
Nuclear score:
3
Mitotic score: 3
Greatest dimension (PT): The larger tumor measures 3.8 cm and
the smaller
measures 2 cm, pT2.
Specimen margins:
Negative
Vessel invasion: Extensive lymphatic invasion present.
Calcification: Negative.
Nipple (Paget's): Negative for Pagets's. Dermal lymphatic
invasion present.
Invasion of skin or chest wall: Negative.
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Both tumors are associated with similar
high-grade
ductal carcinoma in situ.
Histologic pattern:
Nuclear grade: 3
Cribriform and solid
Central necrosis: Positive
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): DCIS is a minor component.
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent):
Specimen margins: Negative
Calcification: Positive
Description of non-tumorous breast:
including
cysts and apocrine metaplasia.
inner
Absent
Fibrocystic changes present
Random sections of the lower
quadrant and lower outer quadrant disclose lymphatic
invasion.
Comments: In the mid-breast, a biopsy site is noted consistent with
prior core biopsy. This site discloses lymphovascular space
invasion.
Lymph nodes:
Number of positive nodes of total: Eight out of 10 lymph contain
metastatic carcinoma, including the apical node, 8/10.
Size of largest metastasis: 1.0 cm
Extracapsular extension (present/absent):
PN: pN2a
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed.
Prognostic markers:
situ.
Previously performed.
Absent
B. This simple mastectomy specimen contains a large biopsy
cavity. In the vicinity there is lobular carcinoma in
No invasive tumor and no ductal carcinoma in situ present.
An E-cadherin stain was performed on block #1. Fibrocystic changes
are noted, including cysts, apocrine metaplasia, florid ductal
hyperplasia and calcifications. The nipple is negative for tumor,
as is the overlying skin.
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte
specific reagents.
our
These antibodies are monitored and controlled in
laboratory and their performance for in vitro diagnosis is well
described in
the medical literature. They have not been cleared or approved by
the FDA.]
DIAGNOSIS
A. Right breast, modified radical mastectomy
B.
Two foci (multifocal) of invasive ductal carcinoma, Elston SBR
grade 3.
Extensive lympovascular space invasion is present.
Skin, all margins negative for tumor.
Metastatic disease present in 8/10 axillary lymph nodes.
Dermal lymphatics of nipple positive for tumor.
Left breast, simple mastectomy
Breast with large prior biopsy cavity and lobular carcinoma in
situ.
Fibrocystic changes present.
No invasive carcinoma or ductal carcinoma present.
M.D. (Electronic Signature)
End Of Report
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepanc
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
/ DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
w 8/24/117
No
