UUID:7226D91A-DF25-4FAE-8300-5E33F29C0E61
TCGA E7 A7DV-01A-PR
Redacted
TSS Patient ID:
Surgical Date:
Gross Description: 1. Lymph node iliac commune, max. dim. 1.5cm with metastasis of urothelial
carcinoma, poor differentiated, (high-grade)
2. Piece of cystoprostatectomy presenting the urinary bladder with cavity occupied by sizable tumor,
vegetative, developed on trigone level, intramural evolution, peri-OUS and invasive in the whole wall.
Histopathological aspect of infiltrative urothelial cell carcinoma, papillary, poorly differentiated, G3, with
giant cells, tumoural groups with sarcomatoid aspects, necrosis, ulceration, intramural evolution and
invasion of the entire bladder wall, prostate and seminal vesicles; stpT4. Numerous intramural tumoral
emboli.
3. Right ureter without malign elements.
4. Right iliac intern, extern and obturator adenopathic block of 5cm with metastasis of low differentiated
carcinoma (high-grade).
5. Right para-rectal adenopathy, node max 1.0 cm with metastasis of urothelial carcinoma (high-grade).
6. Left iliac intern, extern and obturator adenopathic block of 4cm with metastasis of low differentiated
carcinoma (high-grade).
7. Left kidney presenting pielo-caliceal cavities with mucosa covered by fibrinous-hematic clots,
medular/cortical contrast preserved. Histopatologic aspect of focal non-specific chronic nephritis. Renal
pelvis and ureter with hematic subepithelial suffusions. Mid and distal ureter with large lumen, chorion
edema.
Microscopic Description: see above
Diagnosis Details: CONCLUSION:
Infiltrative urothelial cell carcinoma of the bladder, papillary with giant cells and sarcomatoid aspects,
poorly differentiated, G3, (high-grade), stpT4, pN3, pMx (stage IV). Intramural tumoral emboli. Code
8130/3
Pielonephritis chronic, non-specific in focuses
Comments:
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma papillary trarationd all
CCF
Site
Formatted Path Reports: BLADDER TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Radical cystectomy
Tumor site: Bladder
Bladder NES (679
path
813013
Bladder gone (67.0
729/4/13
Tumor size: Not specified
Tumor features: Ulcerated
Histologic type: Transitional cell carcinoma, papillary
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Tumor extent: Invades to prostate
Lymph nodes: 4/4 positive for metastasis (Regional 4/4)
Lymphatic invasion: Present
Venous invasion: Present
Margins: Not specified
Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified
Comments: None
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
8/21
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle
Reviewer al
QUALIFIED DISC
Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
21113
