Patient Name!
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
!
UUID:0F1A84D7-7EB5-4FDD-BB99-FC4DBB712814
TCGA-UY-A9PH-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Visit #:
Sex:
Male
Location
Accession #:
Service Date
Received:
Client:
ICD0-3
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS.
A. Ureter, right, excision: Negative for carcinoma.
B. Ureter, left, excision: Negative for carcinoma.
812013
108 $67.9
Site Bladder NOS.
8103/30/14
C. Urinary bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
-
· Urinary bladder:
1. Invasive urothelial carcinoma, high grade, 1.6 cm, negative margins; see
comment.
2. Nephrogenic adenoma (slide C7).
3. Granulomatous inflammation of mucosa, consistent with BCG effect.
4. Three lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/3).
Prostate:
1. Negative for tumor.
2. Granulomatous inflammation.
3. Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
- Seminal vesicles: No significant pathologic abnormality.
D. Lymph nodes, right obturator, dissection: Nine lymph nodes negative for
carcinoma (0/9).
E. Lymph nodes, right internal iliac, dissection: Three lymph nodes negative for
carcinoma (0/3).
F. Lymph nodes, left internal iliac, dissection: Five lymph nodes negative for
carcinoma (0/5).
G. Lymph nodes, left obturator, dissection: Three lymph nodes negative for
carcinoma (0/3).
Page 1 of 4
H. Ureter, "final left distal," excision: Negative for carcinoma.
I. Ureter, "final right distal," excision: Negative for carcinoma.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma: Transitional cell.
- Tumor grade: High grade.
· Tumor size: 1.6 cm.
Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria (slide C24).
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Present in lymphatics (slide C24).
Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: The majority of the epithelium is denuded.
Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
- Margins:
-
-
-
· Urethral margin: Negative (invasive tumor is >1 cm from margin).
Right ureter margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm from margin).
· Left ureter margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm from margin).
- Perivesical margin: Negative (tumor is 1.1 cm from margin, slide C26).
- Lymph node status: Negative. Total number of nodes examined: 20.
-
Other pathologic findings in bladder: Nephrogenic adenoma, granulomatous inflammation.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bNO.
Dr. has reviewed selected slides and concurs with the diagnoses of urothelial carcinoma and
nephrogenic adenoma.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Right ureter (FS)
B:Left ureter (FS)
C:Bladder and prostate, fs
D:Lymph node, right obturator
E:Lymph node, right internal iliac
F:Lymph node, left internal iiac
G:Lymph node, left obturator
H:Final left distal ureter
I: Final right distal ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Right ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
FS2 (B) Left ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
FS3 (C) Urethral margin, cystoprostatectomy: No tumor.
Clinical History
The patient is a year-old man who per the electronic medical record
a
recent bladder biopsy {
showed urothelial carcinoma that is suspicious for lamina
propria invasion. He now undergoes a cystoprostatectomy with ileal conduit.
Gross Description
Page 2 of 4
The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-I are received in formalin.
Part A, additionally labeled "right ureter," consists of one, soft, pink-white, ovoid, unoriented tissue
fragment (0.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 1, and
subsequently submitted in cassette A1.
Part B, additionally labeled "left ureter," consists of one, soft, pink-white, irregular, unoriented, ovoid
tissue fragment (0.3 x 0.3 × 0.2 cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 2, and
subsequently submitted in cassette B1.
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder + prostate,” and consists of a cystoprostatectomy specimen
containing bladder (239.6 cm; 9 cm from right to left x 3.6 cm from anterior to posterior x 11.2 cm
from superior to inferior) with attached ureters and prostate (3.1 cm from apex to base x 3.2 cm from
left to right x 3 cm from anterior to posterior).
GROSS PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: At the junction of the left inferior bladder and prostate there is a
well-circumscribed, ovoid, firm, tan nodule (1.6 x 1.5 x 1 cm) that is located 1.1 cm from the left
anterior resection surface. Within the mucosal surface of the bladder there are three indurated,
red-brown areas. The first area is located in the right trigone (1.2 x 0.8 cm) and is located 4 cm from
the urethral resection surface and 2 cm from the radial resection margin. The second indurated, red
mucosal area (0.3 x 0.3 cm) is located in the posterior wall of the bladder and is located between the
orifices of the ureter and is 5 cm from the urethral resection surface. The third indurated, red mucosal
area (1.2 x 0.9 cm) is located in the left lateral wall of the bladder and is 5.3 cm from the urethral
resection surface. The remaining portion of the uninvolved bladder appears unremarkable with
red-pink, normal-appearing mucosa. The surrounding adipose tissue is extensively examined for lymph
nodes with multiple firm tan-white candidate lymph nodes (0.3 cm in diameter) identified.
There is an irregular, yellow-tan area within the left mid gland of the prostate measuring 0.9 × 0.4 × 0.3
cm, and is confined to the prostate. The left seminal vesicle (2.9 x 2 x 0.7 cm) and the right seminal
vesicle (2.5 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm) are firm tan-brown and appear unremarkable.
ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks - bladder and prostate.
INTRAOPERATIVE EVALUATION: Frozen section of urethral margin, en face (FS1), submitted in cassette
C1.
-
INKING:
Anterior surface: Green.
Anterior left surface: Blue.
- Posterior surface: Black.
GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes.
CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1:
C2:
C3:
Urethral margin, frozen remnant.
Ureter resection surface, en face (right ureter inked in green and left ureter inked in
blue).
Urethral resection surface, en face.
C4-C5: Perpendicular section through prostatic urethra and inferior bladder.
C6-C9: Entire left lateral indurated mucosal area.
Entire posterior wall indurated mucosal area.
Entire right trigone indurated mucosal area.
Representative section through central portion of bladder trigone.
Representative section from mid portion of bladder.
Representative section from bladder dome.
C10:
C11-C14:
C15:
C16:
C17:
C18:
Left anterior prostate base, nodule.
C19:
C20:
C21:
C22:
Left posterior prostate and seminal vesicle.
Left anterior mid gland of prostate with irregular, yellow-white area.
Right posterior base of prostate and seminal vesicle.
Right mid gland of prostate.
Page 3 of 4
C23:
C24-C25:
C26:
Candidate lymph nodes, submitted intact.
Nodule junction between left inferior bladder and prostate.
Nodule junction between left inferior bladder and prostate, closest relationship to radial
margin.
Part D, additionally labeled "right obturator nodes," consists of multiple, soft, tan-yellow fatty tissue
fragments (3.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate). The specimen is extensively searched for lymph nodes.
Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and submitted as follows:
Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Three intact nodes.
Three Intact nodes.
Part E, additionally labeled "right internal iliac nodes," consists of multiple, soft, tan-yellow fatty tissue
fragments (3 x 2 x 0.6 cm in aggregate). The specimen is extensively searched for lymph nodes. Two
candidate nodes are found and submitted intact in cassette E1.
Part F, additionally labeled "left internal iliac lymph nodes," consists of multiple, soft, tan-yellow fatty
tissue fragments (3.5 x 2 x 1 cm in aggregate). The specimen is extensively searched for lymph nodes.
Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and submitted as follows:
Cassette F1:
Cassette F2:
Three intact nodes.
One intact node.
Part G, additionally labeled "left obturator lymph nodes," consists of one, soft and firm, tan-yellow fatty
tissue fragment (3.5 x 2 x 1 cm). The specimen is extensively searched for lymph nodes. Multiple
candidate lymph nodes are found and submitted as follows:
Cassette G1:
Cassette G2:
Three intact nodes.
One intact node.
Part H, additionally labeled "final left distal ureter, stitch marks distal," consists of an oriented soft, tan
and yellow segment of ureter (2 cm length, 0.4 cm average diameter). The specimen has a stitch at
one end that is designated as the distal aspect by the surgeon. The stitch is removed and the area is
inked blue. The specimen is cross-sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette H1.
Part I, additionally labeled "final right distal ureter, stitch marks distal," consists of one, soft, tan-yellow
segment of ureter (3 cm length, 0.4 cm average diameter). The specimen is oriented with a stitch
indicating the distal aspect. The stitch is removed and the area is inked blue. The specimen is
cross-sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette 11.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Pathology Resident
/Pathologist
Electronically signed out on
Lest BCG given
TCGA
prior to
tumor procurement.
1/22/14
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials_
QUALIFIC
The
✓ Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
12242013
Page 4 of 4
