UUID:6E966861-6052-4F99-8BD5-0835BAE0179D
TCGA-GU-AATP-01A-PR
Redacted
Results
Patient Information
Patient Name
MRN
Result Information
Status
Final result
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Pathology
Patient Name:
Med Rec #:
Accession #:
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Provider Status
Reviewed
Sex
DOB
Lab
ICD-0:3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
812013
Site: Bladder, lateral wall
FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS
A. Right distal ureter margin, biopsy:
- Segment of ureter, negative for tumor
- Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
B. Left distal ureter margin, biopsy:
- Focal urothelial atypia, suspicious for carcinoma in situ in cryostat sections
- Prominent sections predominantly denuded
C. Urinary Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, involving right superior lateral
bladder wall as a pedunculated mass
- Urothelial carcinoma focally invades superficial muscularis propria (pT2a)
- Lymphovascular invasion identified
- All assessed surgical resection margins are free of urothelial carcinoma
- Background urothelium with urothelial carcinoma in-situ
-Separate focus of prostatic urethral urothelial carcinoma with invasion into
the subepithelial connective tissue (pT1)
-Prostate gland with nodular hyperplasia and atrophy
-Three lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/3)
- See CAP template below for further details
D. Left distal ureter margin 2, biopsy:
- Segment of benign ureter
No carcinoma is seen
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
E. Right obturator lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
-
- One out of three lymph nodes with isolated tumor cell clusters (1/3,
micrometastasis)
- Immunohistochemical stains with appropriate control for keratin (AE1/AE3)
supports this diagnosis
F. Right iliac lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
e 4/30/14
C67.2
Page 1 of 6
}
- Two out of twelve lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma (2/12, 3mm focus in 1
node and 2nd node with isolated tumor cell)
G. Left iliac lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Two benign lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/2)
H. Left obturator lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Four benign lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/4)
CAP Template for Carcinoma of Urinary Bladder:
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Site: Right superior lateral bladder wall
Tumor Size:
Greatest dimension: 1.5 x 1.5 cm (gross measurement)
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Histologic Grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO 2004/ISUP): High-grade
Tumor Configuration: pedunculated
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT): pT2a:Tumor invades superficial muscularis propria /
detrusor muscle (inner half)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastasis in the
true pelvis
examined: 24 (see specimen C, E-H)
Specify: Number
Specify: Number
involved: 3 (3 mm largest focus and 2 with isolated tumor cells)
Distant Metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings:
Focus of prostatic urethral with invasion into the subepithelial connective
tissue (pT1)
Prostate: nodular hyperplasia
Urothelial carcinoma in-situ, regenerative and biopsy site changes
Ancillary Studies: Blocks C1-3 and C4-6, C7-9 can be used for additional
studies if needed.
***Electronically Signed Out By
Page 2 of 6
CLINICAL HISTORY
Bladder cancer
Radical cystectomy, ileal conduct
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
A: Right distal ureter margin
B: Left distal ureter margin
C: Bladder and prostate
D: Left distal ureter margin
E: Right obturator lymph nodes
F: Right illac lymph node
G: Left iliac lymph nodes
H: Left obturator lymph nodes
GROSS DESCRIPTION
Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and “right distal ureter margin". The specimen consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 0.5 cm in diameter x 0.2 cm in length. The specimen is completely
submitted for frozen section as A1.
Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and "left distal ureter margin". The specimen consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 0.4 cm in diameter x 0.3 cm in length. The specimen is completely
submitted for frozen section as B1.
Specimen C:
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureter stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles,
vas deferens
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Fixative: Fresh. Tissue taken for research and later submitted in formalin
Dimensions: Bladder, SI 3.7 cm, left to right 4.0 cm, AP 3.5 cm, right ureter
2.3 cm in length 0.4 cm in diameter, left ureter 2.8 cm in length 0.4 cm in
diameter, prostate SI 5.3 cm, left to right 6.3 cm, AP 5.5 cm
Description of findings:
Tumor: Along the right superior lateral wall is a red-brown, firm pedunculated
mass measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. Surrounding the mass is an area of dark red
edema measuring 3.5 x 1.5 cm. This area of edema surrounds the right ureteral
orifice at the posterior wall is eroded, flattened firm measuring approximately
3.0 x 2.0 cm which is adjacent to the left ureteral orifice. Sectioning through
the mass reveals invasion into the lamina propria. No definite invasion into
the muscularis propria is identified. Upon sectioning through the mass, the
mass fragmented from the bladder mucosa. Sectioning through the areas of edema
and flattened mucosa reveals no evidence of invasion
Uninvolved mucosa: There is very little normal mucosa present. No other
discrete masses or lesions are identified.
Prostate, seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia: Sectioning through the prostate
reveals a pale tan to yellow multinodular architecture with multiple cystic
areas ranging in size up to 0.3 cm in diameter. A discrete nodular mass is not
grossly identified. The seminal vesicles and vas deferens are unremarkable.
Additional findings: Four possible lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.3
to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Ink code: Right prostate orange, left prostate blue, anterior bladder green,
posterior bladder black.
Section key:
C1 right ureter longitudinal section including attached bladder mucosal edema
Page 3 of 6
C2 left ureter longitudinal section including adjacent flattened bladder mucosa
C3-C6 pedunculated mass completely submitted
C7, C8 edema adjacent to mass
C9 right wall and posterior wall including flattened mucosa
C10-left wall and posterior wall including flattened mucosa
C11 representative section of anterior wall
C12 representative section of dome
C13, C14 one complete cross section extending from bladder neck to prostate
apex split
C15 urethral margin submitted en face
C16, C17 right apex
C18-C20 representative sections of right prostate
C21, C22 left apex
C23, C24 representative section of left prostate
C25
C26 representative sections of right and left distal vas deferens
C27 possible lymph nodes
Specimen D is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and "left distal ureter margin". The specimen consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 0.5 cm in diameter x 0.3 cm in length. The specimen is completely
submitted for frozen section as D1.
Specimen E is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right
obturator lymph nodes". The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellow fatty
tissue measuring 5.5 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm. Three possible lymph nodes are identified
measuring from 1.0 up to 5.5 cm in greatest dimension which are completely
submitted.
Section key:
E1-E6 largest lymph node sectioned
E7 one lymph node bisected
E8 one lymph node bisected
Specimen F is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right
illac lymph nodes". The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellow fatty
tissue measuring 5.5 x 5.0 x 3.5 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified
ranging from 0.3 up to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension which are completely as
follows:
F1-F4 largest lymph node sectioned
F5, F6 one lymph node trisected
F7 one lymph node
F8 one lymph node bisected
F9 one lymph node bisected
F10 one lymph node trisected
F11, F12 multiple single lymph nodes
Specimen G is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left
illac lymph nodes". The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellow fatty
tissue measuring 5.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. Two possible lymph nodes are identified
ranging from 0.8 up to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension which are completely
submitted as follows:
G1, G2 larger lymph node bisected
G3 smaller lymph node
Specimen H is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and “left
obturator lymph nodes". The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellow fatty
tissue measuring 4.5 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm. Multiple possible lymph nodes are
identified ranging from 0.5 up to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension which are
completely submitted as follows:
H1-H3 largest lymph sectioned
H4 one lymph node bisected
Page 4 of 6
H5 three single lymph nodes
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
The stain quality is acceptable.
A-H. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
Time in:
Time out:
A1-FS, Right distal ureter margin, biopsy:
"Negative for tumor"
Time in:
Time out:
B1-FS, Left distal ureter margin, blopsy:
suspicious for CIS. Request more tissue".
"Atypical urothelium,
Time in:
Time out:
D1-FS, Left distal ureter margin, frozen:
Predominantly denuded".
"Negative for tumor.
Reported to
by
Interpretation performed at:
Results
Pathology Report - Scan on
Intraoperative consultation report
Result History
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (
Order Result History Report.
Collection Information
Date and Time
Lab Information
Reviewed by List
Status:
This order is currently not shared in
Order
Patient Information
Accession #
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMENT
Page 5 of 6
Patient Name
Visit Information
Date
MRN
Sex
DOB
Time
Department
Urology
Provider
Admission Information
Attending Provider
Admitting Provider
Admission Type
Admission Date/Time
Discharge Date
Hospital Service
Auth/Cert Status
Service Area
Unit
Room/Bed
Admission Status
Date and Time
Ordering
Order
Order Name
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Discharge Information
Authorizing
Discharge Provider
Date/Time
(none)
(none)
Disposition
(none)
Order Providers
Authorizing Provider
Collection Information
Date and Time
Priority and Order Details
Priority
Routine
Class
Unknown Status (No Confirmation
Status)
Department
Urology
Code
Order Number
Encounter Provider
Accession #
Destination
(none)
Criteria
Lu 1/21/14
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 1
