Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
4/1/11
A. Ureter, left distal, biopsy for frozen section examination of margin:
No pathologic change.
The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
B. Ureter, right distal, biopsy for frozen section examination of margin:
No pathologic change.
The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
C. Urinary bladder, anterior exenteration:
Tumor histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma
Variant histology (%): No
Tumor size: greatest dimension: 29 mm
Additional dimensions: 20 x 10 mm
Grade (WHO 2004): High
Tumor configuration: Papillary and nodular/infiltrative
Associated epithelial lesions: Urothelial carcinoma in situ
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
ICD-0-
3
DISQUALIFIED
wed: 512-44-
Carcinoma, urothelial, Nos
812013
Site bladder, NUS
C679
Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor superficially invades perivesical soft tissue
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present
Margins:
Urethral: Negative
Ureteral: Negative (parts A and B)
Paravesical soft tissue: Negative
Other (specify): Vaginal mucosal margins are negative
Additional pathologic findings: Transurethral resection wound
Paravesical lymph nodes (number positive/total number): 0/1
All lymph nodes (number positive/total number): 2/17
Size of largest lymph node metastasis: 9 mm; right pelvic lymph nodes
Extranodal extension (location): No
Pathologic stage
pT3a pN2 pM-Not applicable
Uterus, uterine cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, anterior
exenteration:
Uterine cervix with no pathologic change.
Inactive endometrium with no pathologic change.
Fallopian tubes with no pathologic change.
ん
6/1/11
Benign paratubal cysts.
Atrophic ovaries with corpora albicantia.
UUID:1522A38C-0867-4275-AB24-FF21B8E988B5
TCGA-GD-A2C5-01A-PR
Redacted
Vagina (52 x 38 mm), partial resection:
Negative for malignancy.
D. Lymph nodes (7), right pelvic, excision:
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/7).
E. Lymph nodes (9), left pelvic, excision:
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/9).
The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Left ureter:
No evidence of malignancy.
FSB: Right ureter:
No evidence of malignancy.
F/S TAT:
12.5 mins. each
Gross Description:
Received are five containers labeled with the patient's name. The first two
containers are received without formalin for frozen section. The
remaining three containers are received with formalin.
The first is labeled "A, left distal ureter FS" and contains a full thickness
cross section of apparent ureter measuring 0.4 cm in diameter and 0.3 cm in
length with a small amount of associated fat. The specimen is submitted 
in 
toto
for frozen section diagnosis with the residue now resubmitted for permanent
section in cassette A1.
The second container is labeled "B, right distal ureter" and contains a short
segment of apparent ureter measuring 1.2 cm in length with an average diameter
of 0.6 cm. One aspect is tagged with a suture. A representative section 
is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis with the residue now resubmitted for
permanent section in cassette B1. The remaining tissue is now serially
sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette B2.
The third container is labeled "anterior exenteration" and contains an anterior
exenteration specimen including the urinary bladder, which measures 5.5 x 4.5 x
3.2 cm, the uterus which measures 7.2 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm and an excision of vaginal
cuff surrounding the cervix measuring 5.2 x 3.8 cm in area. The soft tissue
surfaces overlying the bladder are inked black. The irregular resection margins
surrounding the vaginal cuff are inked blue. The specimen is opened
longitudinally revealing a papillary tumor involving the approximate midline
trigone area of the bladder mucosa, measuring 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm. Adjacent to
the right of the tumor is an area of previous fulguration measuring 2.0 x 1.9 cm
in area. Combined, these two areas measure 2.9 cm in greatest dimension.
Sectioning of this area reveals gross invasion to a depth of 1.0 cm at a
distance of 0.2 cm from the inked posterior soft tissue surface. The mass does
not grossly appear to invade the uterine cervix or other structures.
Representative sections of the bladder are submitted in the following manner:
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
C6-7
C8-11
C12
urethral margin;
12 to 3 o'clock vaginal cuff mucosa margin;
3 to 6 o'clock vaginal cuff mucosa margin;
6 to 9 o'clock vaginal cuff mucosa margin;
9 to 12 o'clock vaginal cuff mucosa margin;
relationship of mass to vaginal mucosa;
mass with deepest invasion in right posterior soft tissue;
bladder dome;
C13 left bladder wall.
The uterine ectocervix is pink-tan, smooth and glistening with no grossly
suspicious lesions
. The endocervix is pink-tan and velvety with a few small
cystic spaces on 
the cut surface containing mucoid material. Sectioning of the
myometrium reveals 
an average endometrial thickness of 0.3 cm and an average
myometrial thickness 
of 1.0 cm. There are no grossly suspicious endometrial or
myometrial lesions. The 
left ovary measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm and has a
cerebriform 
outer surface. The attached segment of fallopian tube includes the
fimbriated end and 
measures 3.0 cm with an average diameter of 0.6 cm.
Sectioning of both 
the left adnexal structures reveals no grossly suspicious
lesions. The ovarian cut 
surface is white-tan and homogeneous. The right
adnexal structures 
include a segment of fallopian tube measuring 3.5 cm in
length with a diameter 
that tapers from 0.6 to 0.8 cm and an occluded fimbriated
end. The right ovary 
is not grossly identifiable. Sectioning reveals no grossly
suspicious lesions.
Representative sections from the uterus are submitted in the following manner:
anterior cervix;
C14
C15
posterior cervix;
C16
anterior full thickness endomyometrium;
C17
C18
left adnexal structures;
posterior full thickness endomyometrium;
C19 right adnexal structures.
The paravesical fat is trimmed and subjected to chemical clearing and Carnoy's
solution prior to exhaustive 
lymph node search, which reveals a few small
possible lymph 
nodes ranging in size from 0.2 to 0.3 cm in greatest dimension.
The nodes are submitted 
entirely in cassettes C20 and C21.
The fourth container is labeled "D, right pelvic nodes" and contains two strips
of yellow-tan lobulated fatty 
tissue measuring 4.2 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm and 3.5 x 1.5
× 0.6 cm. The 
specimen is subjected to chemical clearing in Carnoy's solution
prior to lymph node search
, which reveals two gross lymph nodes measuring 1.4
and 3.5 cm in greatest dimension
.
The specimen is submitted entirely in the following manner:
D1
D2
D3-4
largest lymph node bisected;
one lymph node bisected;
remaining fatty tissue.
The fifth container is labeled "E, left pelvic lymph nodes" and contains a
single fragment of yellow-tan lobulated fatty tissue 
measuring 4.5 x 1.8 
x 1.8
cm. The specimen is subjected to chemical clearing 
with Carnoy's solution
prior to exhaustive lymph node search, which 
reveals three grossly identifiable
lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.4 to 2.5 cm in 
greatest dimension.
The specimen is submitted entirely in the following manner:
E1
E2-3
E4-5
two whole small lymph nodes;
one large lymph node bisected;
remaining fatty tissue.
Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.
Taken:
END OF REPORT
