Sample #
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race: White
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial Nos
Site
CSCF
812013
Bladder, trigone 7.0
opping lessing
bath
-8
bladder
0678
JED 7/22/13
UUID:874A45C3-3707-4EDD-80C4-140655FAE95A
TCGA-FD-A6TH-01A-PR
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
-
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in a matted lymph node (1/1).
The tumor focus measures 4.0 cm.
- Tumor extensively involves perinodal adipose tissue and lymphovascular spaces.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in four of four lymph nodes (4/4).
- Tumor present in perinodal adipose tissue and lymphovascular spaces.
- Segment of vas deferens, no tumor present.
C. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in five of nine lymph nodes (5/9).
- Tumor extensively involves perinodal adipose tissue and lymphovascular spaces.
D. Bladder and prostate; cystoprostatectomy:
- Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder, high grade, transmurally invasive
into
the perivesical and the left perivesicular adipose tissue.
- Urothelial carcinoma in situ.
- Extensive lymphovascular invasion present.
- Soft tissue margin of resection positive for carcinoma.
- Margins of resection (prostatic urethra, right and left ureter), no tumor
present.
- See pathologic parameters.
- Prostate with extensive necrotizing granulomas consistent with BCG therapy
effect.
- High grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
E. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Redacted
F. Left "peri uroretral" tissue; excision:
- Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor present.
G. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Flat urothelial carcinoma
2. Grade of tumor: High grade
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesical adipose tissue
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary 5.8 x 3 x 2.5 cm
Dome
Right lateral wall
Left lateral wall
Trigone
Posterior wall
5. Ureteral margins: Negative
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Positive
8. Lymph nodes: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in ten of fourteen lymph nodes
(10/14)
9. pTNM: pT3N2
Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow [], MD
Electronically Signed Out by () M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is a year-old male with urothelial carcinoma undergoing a
cystoprostatectomy with lymph node dissection.
Specimens Received:
A: Left pelvic lymphnode
B: Left pelvic lymphnode
C: Right pelvic lymphnode
D: Bladder and prostate
E: Left distal ureteral stitch non margin
F: Left peri uroretral tissue
G: Right distal ureter stitch non margin
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in seven containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph node".
Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a 4 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm aggregate
of matted, firm, fibroadipose tissue adherent to a lymph node measuring 4 x 3.5
x 1.7 cm. A representative section of the lymph node is frozen and read as,
"metastatic urothelial carcinoma" per Dr. []. The remaining lymph node is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted as A2-A12. The remaining fibroadipose
tissue submitted as A13. The specimen is entirely submitted.
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.5 x 4.2 x 1 cm aggregate of
yellow, lobulated fibroadipose tissue. The specimen is dissected to reveal for
lymph node candidates ranging from 0.3-3 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen
is entirely submitted as follows
B1: 2 lymph node candidates
B2: 1 lymph node candidate
B3-B4: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B5-B9: Remaining fibroadipose tissue
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6 x 4 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
soft, yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen is dissected to reveal 7
lymph node candidates ranging from 0.3-3.7 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted as follows
C1: 3 lymph node candidates
C2-C4: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C5: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C6-C9: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C10-C12: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C13-C14: Remaining fibroadipose tissue
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "bladder and prostate".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 365.96 g, 19 x 11.5 x 5 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 6.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 5.3 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm prostate. The right seminal
vesicles measure 2.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm and right vas deferens measures 4 x 0.5 cm.
The left seminal vesicles measures 2.0 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm and left vas deferens
measures 4 x 0.5 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2 x 0.4 cm, the left
measures 0.4 x 0.3 cm, and each demonstrates an intact, patent lumen. The
urethral stump measures 0.6 x 0.6 cm.
The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The outer surface of the prostate is reddish tan and shaggy. Sectioning
demonstrates diffuse white-tan, ill-defined lesions, which cluster together
throughout the entire prostate. The ill-defined white lesions abut black ink. A
gross photograph is taken.
The opened bladder reveals a 3 x 2.2 cm yellow-tan ulcer with a hyperemic border
in the left posterior and left lateral wall. On cut section, the mass measures
5.8 x 3 x 2.5 cm and extends into and through the muscularis propria into the
perivesical fat, abutting the lateral left margin and 0.1 cm from the deep
margin. Gross photographs are taken. The surrounding bladder mucosa is
wrinkled, pink-tan with a uniform 1.3 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral
orifices, adjacent to the trigone, are identified and probe patent.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1: Distal prostatic urethral margin
D2: Right ureter resection margin
D3: Left ureter resection margin
D4-D5: Prostate apex
D6-D8: Right prostate (apex to base)
D9-D11: Left prostate (apex to base)
D12-D13: Additional right side of prostate (near base)
D14: Representative right seminal vesicles and vas deferens
D15: Representative left seminal vesicles and vas deferens
D16: Right lateral wall
D17: Left lateral wall
D18: Trigone
D19: Anterior wall
D20: Posterior wall
D21: Dome
D22: Mass extending into pericystic fat, abutting lateral margin
D23: Mass closest to deep margin
D24-D26: Additional sections of mass
D27: Mass w/adjacent normal bladder parenchyma
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter
stitch non-margin". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 0.3 cm portion
of ureter with a diameter of 0.3 cm oriented with a stitch on the non-margin
side. The opposite side is inked black and submitted en face E1.
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "left periuroretral
tissue". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented fragment of
yellow-tan soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted
in toto as F1.
G. The seventh container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter
stitch on margin". Received fresh in place in formalin is a 1.3 cm portion of
ureter with a diameter of 0.3 cm and oriented with a stitch marking the
non-margin side. The opposite side is inked black and submitted en face G1.
Criteria
how 7/16/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumar Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepan
Prior Matignancy History
Dual,'Synchronous Primary Hote
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIE
Date Reviewed:
Yes.
No
DISQUALIFIED
1973
