UUID:04E024F2-1D17-446A-868D-DCC2C2564103
TCGA-FD-A3SR-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Male
DOB: 1
Race:
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
ICD-0-3
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Yes
No
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initia
Date Reviewed:
w 4
/2/18
carcinoma, unthelial, Nos
Site:
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in two of six lymph nodes (2/6).
- The largest tumor focus measures 1.0 cm.
- No extranodal extension present
B. Ureter, left distal; excision:
- Segment of ureter with high-grade urothelial carcinoma involving
periureteral fibroadipose tissue
C. Lymph nodes, right pelvis; dissection:
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one of ten lymph nodes (1/10)
- Tumor focus measures 0.2 cm.
- No extranodal extension present
- Separate fragments of high-grade urothelial carcinoma invading
fibromuscular tissue.
D. Bladder, prostate, vas deferens; radical cystoprostatectomy:
- Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder, high grade, transmurally
invasive
into perivesical and periprostatic soft tissue and bilateral seminal
vesicles.
812013
path: bladder, Nos
:bla.
667.9
CQCF: bladder, wall,
posterior
- Extensive urothelial carcinoma in situ (flat urothelial carcinoma) in the
urinary bladder.
- Extensive lymphovascular invasion.
- Soft tissue margin of resection (posterior wall) positive for carcinoma
- Left ureter with high-grade urothelial carcinoma involving periureteral
fibroadipose tissue.
- Margins of resection (prostatic urethra and right ureter), no tumor
present.
067.4
4-9-12 RD
-
See pathologic parameters.
Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 6 (3+3).
- Tumor confined to the prostate gland.
- No extraprostatic extension present.
- Margins of resection, no tumor present.
- Seminal versicles and vasa deferentia, no prostatic adenocarcinoma
present.
- High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
- See pathologic parameters.
E. Periureteral tissue, left; excision:
- High grade urothelial carcinoma involving fibroadipose tissue.
F. Periureteral tissue, right; excision:
- High grade urothelial carcinoma involving fibroadipose tissue.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Flat urothelial carcinoma
2. Grade of tumor: High grade
3. Depth of invasion: Seminal vesicles, perivesical and periprostatic soft
tissue
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary (3.5 cm), involving dome, right lateral and
posterior walls
5. Ureteral margins: Positive (left periureteral fibroadipose tissue)
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
7. Soft tissue margin: Positive
8. Lymph nodes: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in four of sixteen lymph nodes
(4/16)
9. pTNM: pT4aN2MX
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason Score: 6 (3+3)
2. Perineural Invasion: Absent
3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - Left
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: Less than 1%
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for prostatic adenocarcinoma
7. Extraprostatic extension: Absent
8. Peripheral Margin: Negative
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostatic
adenocarcinoma
12. pTNM: pT2aN0MX
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the
edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XXX
[] M.D
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [], M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is a
cystoprostatectomy.
ear old male with bladder cancer undergoing radical
Specimens Received:
A: Lymph nodes left
B: Distal left ureter
C: Lymph node pelvic right
D: Bladder, prostate, vas deferens
E: Peri ureteral tissue
F: Peri ureteral right
Gross Description:
Received are six containers, each labeled with the patient's name and medical
record number.
A. Container A is further designated "1. Lymph nodes left." Received fresh and
placed in formalin are multiple fragments of rubbery, yellow-tan fragments of
fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.5 x 4 x 0.8 cm. A number of lymph node candidates
are identified, the largest measuring 1.7 cm.
Block Summary:
Al: one lymph node bisected
A2: two lymph nodes
A3: one lymph node
A4: one lymph node
A5: one lymph node bisected
B. Container B is further designated "2. Distal left ureter." Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a triangle fragment of rubbery, tan-brown tissue
measuring 1.2 x 2.1 x 0.4 cm. There is a stitch indicating the non-margin side.
Opposite to the stitch is a luminal structure consistent with ureter. This non
stitch end is shaved off thinly and submitted in cassette B1.
C. Container C is further designated "3. Lymph node pelvic right." Received
fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of yellow-tan, lobulated,
fibroadipose tissue measuring 6.5 x 4.5 x 1 cm. A number of lymph node
candidates are identified, the largest measuring 1.2 cm.
Block Summary:
C1: one lymph node bisected
C2: four lymph nodes
C3: four lymph nodes
C4: one lymph node
C5: one lymph node bisected
D. Container D is further designated "4. Bladder, prostate, vas deferens."
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 386.3 grams cystoprostatectomy
specimen that overall measures 16 x 10.5 x 4.5 cm. There is a bladder measuring
8 x 9 x 4 cm, right ureter measuring 3 x 0.4 cm, left ureter measuring 4.5 x 0.5
cm and prostate measuring 4.5 x 4.3 x 4 cm. The outer surface of the bladder is
inked black. The left side of the prostate is also inked black and the right
side of the prostate is inked blue. The specimen is opened by a Y shaped
incision to reveal a right posterolateral eroded lesion near the dome measuring
3.5 x 1.8 cm. The lesion has foci of white-tan fibrotic tissue around it and
extending from the areas of erythema. No other lesions or masses are identified
within the bladder. There are two additional segments of vas deferens measuring
4.5 and 5.2 cm long. The specimen is serially sectioned from distal urethral
margin to the bladder dome. The prostate contains discrete yellow-tan nodules
with unremarkable parenchyma. The bladder is serially sectioned to reveal the
lesion extending to a maximum depth of 1.4 cm that focally abuts the deep
margin.
Block Summary:
D1: urethral margin
D2: left ureter margin
D3: right ureter margin
D4-D8: representative sections of right side of prostate
D9-D13: representative sections of left side of prostate
D14: right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
D15: left seminal vesicle and vas deferens
D16: section from bladder dome
D17: anterior wall
D18: posterior wall
D19: right wall
D20: left wall
D21: section from trigone
D22-D32: multiple sections of the lesion and surrounding erythematous tissue
with D28-D30 sections from deepest invasion
E. Container E is further designated "5. Peri ureteral tissue." Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a fragment of tan-brown to rubbery tissue measuring
1.8 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm submitted entirely in cassette El.
F. Container F is further designated "6. Peri ureteral right." Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a fragment of tan-brown, rubbery fragment of tissue
covered by a scant amount of yellow-tan adipose tissue. The specimen measures
0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm and submitted entirely in cassette F1.
XXX
[], M.D.
