UUID:3C79B07E-8985-4F42-BEE6-56D308603409
TCGA-GU-AATO-01A-PR
Redacted
Results
Patient Information
Patient Name
MRN
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Result Information
Status
Provider Status
Reviewed
Edited
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Pathology
Patient Name:
Med Rec #:
Accession #:
Sex
Male
DOB
Lab
Image Analysis
Date Ordered:
Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
ICD-0.3
Date Reported:
Interpretation
Prognostic markers performed on block C13
BLADDER CANCER RECURRENCE SCORE
p21 by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:
Altered
Percent Positive Average: 0%
Staining Intensity Grade: 0
HistoScore: 0
p21 altered range (<10%)
p27 by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:
Unaltered
Percent Positive Average: 78%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7
p27 altered range (<30%)
p53 by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:
Altered
Percent Positive Average: 83%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7
p53 altered range (>=10%)
Carcinoma, urothelial Nos
312013
Site: Bladder wall NOS
J45418014
0679
Page 1 of 7
Ki-67 by IHC and Image QUANTITATION:
Aftered
Percent Positive Average: 35%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 5
Ki-67 altered range (>10%)
Cyclin E by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:
Unaltered
Percent Positive Average: 32%
Staining Intensity Grade: 1
HistoScore: 4
Cyclin E altered range (<30%)
INTERPRETATION:
Prognostic Significance: Unfavorable
3 Biomarker(s) altered
Range: Favorable <= 2 altered biomarkers
Unfavorable > 2 altered biomarkers
Comment:
In the above tumor profile the number of altered biomarkers improves the
predictive accuracy for patients with PTa-T3 NO Bladder Cancer. Greater that 2
altered biomarkers are associated with increased risk of recurrence.
Note:
Staining intensity based on 0 (neg) to 3+ (highest)
Percent Positive Average: Percentage of tumor cells staining.
HistoScore = Percentage of tumor cells staining (Scale 0-5) + Intensity
(Scale 0-3).
These tests were performed IHC in conjunction with automated image
analysis. The performance characteristics of the above tests have been
determined in the
While some antibodies have not been
approved by the FDA, clearance / approval is not mandated. These antibodies
are well documented and clinically accepted prognostic indicators.
These tests should not be regarded as part of research investigations. Known
positive and negative control tissue show appropriate staining.
The above tumor bio-markers were performed per
The system used for image quantitation is the
The method used for antigen retrieval is heat induced
protocol.
Page 2 of 7
epitope retrieval.
College of American Pathologists (CAP) required information for
predictive/prognostic markers. Type of specimen fixation and detection system:
polymer detection kits are used on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections.
Clones user: p21 (SX118); p27(SX53G8); p53 (DO-7); Ki-67 (MIB-1); Cyclin E
(HE12)
Prognostic markers performed at
Results-Comments
{Not Entered}
FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS
A. Left distal ureter, blopsy:
- Negative for carcinoma or high grade dysplasia
B. Right distal ureter, biopsy:
- Negative for carcinoma or high grade dysplasia
C. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with micropapillary features,
invasion
into the prostate gland and seminal vesicles, and extensive lymphovascular
Invasion, pT4aN2MX
- The tumor extends to the inked and cauterized deep surgical margin
-
multifocally
See CAP Staging Protocol below for full report
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
- Four of four lymph nodes, positive for metastatic carcinoma (4/4)
"
The largest nodal deposit measures 9.0 mm in greatest dimension, without
extracapsular extension
CAP Staging Protocol for Carcinoma of the Prostate Gland
Specimen: Bladder and prostate
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 9.0 cm
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma, with micropapillary
features
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Histologic Grade: Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO 2004/ISUP): High-grade
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor involves muscularis propria
Tumor invades perivesical tissue
Tumor invades prostate and seminal vesicles
Margins: Carcinoma is present at the cauterized and inked deep margin
multifocally
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present, extensive
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT):
vagina
pT4a: Tumor invades prostatic stroma or uterus or
Regional Lymph Nodes (PN): pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastasis in
the true pelvis
Number of lymph nodes examined: 4, Number involved: 4
Distant Metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Ancillary Studies: If necessary, ancillary studies may be performed on block
C13.
The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
edition.
***Electronically Signed Out By
CLINICAL HISTORY
Bladder cancer
Radical cystectomy, lymph node dissection ileal conduit, all other indicated
procedures
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
A: Left distal ureter
B: Right distal ureter
C: Bladder and prostate
D: Left pelvic lymph nodes
GROSS DESCRIPTION
Specimen A received fresh, labeled with the patient's name and designated “left
distal ureter" is a tan, tubular segment of tissue, 0.3 cm in length x 0.5 cm in
diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis as
A1.
Specimen B received fresh, labeled with the patient's name and designated "right
distal ureter" is a tan, tubular segment of tissue, dilated, 0.3 in length x 1.0
cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis
as 81.
Specimen C:
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureter stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
Page 48f7
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
Procedure: Radical cystectomy
Fixative: Fresh
Dimensions: Overall: 11.0 cm SI x 10.5 cm R-L x 7.0 cm AP
Bladder: 6.0 SI x 4.0 cm R-L x 4.0 cm AP
Right ureter: 3.0 cm length, 0.8 cm diameter
Left ureter: 2.5 cm length, 0.5 cm diameter
Prostate: 4.0 cm apex-base, 5.5 cm R-L, 3.5 cm AP
Description of findings:
Tumor: There is diffuse, ulcerated tumor covering the posterior, right
lateral, and anterior wall. The ulceration extends into the left lateral
mucosa. The overall tumor area is 9.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm. The tumor has an
irregular border, extends through the muscularis propria and extends to the
perivesicular inked surface. The tumor possibly extends into the seminal
vesicles, with the seminal vesicles showing white, firm parenchyma. The tumor
invasion through the muscularis propria into the soft tissue shows indurated,
solid tumor, focally extending to the inked surface. Multiple sections are
submitted for tissue procurement. The right ureteral orifice is surrounded with
ulcerated, hemorrhagic mucosa. The left ureteral orifice is focally congested.
The mucosa of the ureters is unremarkable.
Involvement of Important adjacencies: Perivesical fat, possibly into the seminal
vesicles.
Uninvolved mucosa: There is no unremarkable mucosa in the bladder.
Prostate, seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia: The prostate is serially
sectioned apex to base into six slabs. The parenchyma is tan, focally cystic
with pale parenchyma extending from the midline into each lobe, most prominent
in the anterior aspect. In slab 6, there is focal white parenchyma along the
outer edge of the prostate focally invading into the prostate parenchyma. This
infiltration is most prominent in the right prostate.
Ink code: anterior bladder = black, posterior bladder = green, right prostate =
orange, left prostate = blue, anterior prostate = green, posterior prostate =
black
Gross photographs are taken.
Section key:
C1 - urethra margin
C2, C3 - bladder neck central to seminal vesicles, one piece
C4,C5 - right bladder neck to seminal vesicles, one piece
C6, C7 - left bladder neck to seminal vesicles, one piece
C8, C9 - right ureteral orifice, right ureter edge, one piece
C10, C11 - left ureteral orifice, left ureter edge, one piece
C12 - right bladder, tumor to inked surface
C13, C14 - right lateral wall, tumor through muscularis propria to inked surface
C15-right lateral wall, tumor through muscularis propria to inked surface
C16, C17 - posterior wall, tumor through muscularis propria to inked surface
C18 - dome, tumor muscularis propria
C19, C20-left bladder wall, with tumor extending from posterior wall
C21-C23 - anterior bladder, tumor through muscular propria to inked surface
C24 - 
slab 1 prostate right apex
C25 - slab 1 prostate left apex
C26 - slab 3 prostate right
C27 - slab 3 prostate left
C28 - slab 5 prostate right anterior
C29 - slab 5 prostate right posterior
C30 - slab 5 prostate left anterior
C31 - slab 5 prostate left posterior
C32 - slab 6 right lateral prostate anterior
C33 slab 6 right lateral prostate posterior
-
C34 - slab 6 mid prostate anterior
C35 - slab 6 mid prostate posterior
C36 - slab 6 left lateral prostate anterior
C37 - slab 6 left lateral prostate posterior
Specimen D received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and designated
"left pelvic lymph node" is fragmented adipose tissue, 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm.
There are four possible nodes, 0.6 cm to 4.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. The cut surface of
the nodes shows white-gray, slightly gritty parenchyma. The nodes are submitted
entirely as follows:
D1 - one node bisected
D2 - one node serially sectioned into 5 pieces
D3 - one node quadrisected
D4, D5 - one node serially sectioned into 11 pieces
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
The stain quality is acceptable.
A-D. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
Time in:
Time out:
A1-FS, Left distal ureter: "No dysplasia or carcinoma seen".
B1-FS, Right distal ureter. "No dysplasia or carcinoma seen".
Reported to
by
Interpretation performed at:
Results
Pathology Report - Scan
Result History
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Result Notes
Notes Recorded by
Collection Information
-
Date and Time
Lab Information
Reviewed by List
: Intraoperative Consultation Report-
Order Result History Report.
Accession #
Page 6 of 7
Status:
This order is currently not shared in
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Order
Patient Information
Patient Name
MRN
Visit Information
Date
Time
Department
Urology
Provider
(Order
Sex
DOB
Admission Information
Attending Provider
Admitting Provider
Admission Type
Admission Date/Time
Discharge Date
Hospital Service
Auth/Cert Status
Service Area
Unit
Room/Bed
Admission Status
Order Information
Order Date and Time
Order
Order Name
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Order Providers
Authorizing Provider
Collection Information
Date and Time
Priority and Order Details
Priority
Routine
Class
Ordering User
Unknown Status (No Confirmation
Status)
Code
Encounter Provider
Department
Urology
Accession #
Order Number
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
lw 1/21/14
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
