UUID:D586806E-08E2-4C46-89B3-121BF0FFF693
TCGA-SY-A9G0-01A-PR
Redacted
Surgical Pathology Report
*Final*
Page 1 of 3
ICD0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial Hos
8120/3
Site Bladder, parterior wall
CQCE
Kath
JW 2/24/14
067.4
C622
Bladder, lateralwall
DIAGNOSIS:
Surgical Pathology Report
A-E. Bladder, prostate, and pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy.
Tumor site:
Right posterior lateral wall.
Tumor size: 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.2 cm.
Histologic type: Urothelial (transitional cell carcinoma), with
nested pattern.
Associated epithelial lesions: None identified.
Histologic grade: High-grade, grade 3 (of 3).
Tumor configuration: Solid/nodule with ulceration.
Microscopic tumor extension: Perivesical fat.
Margins: Negative, right and left distal ureter (specimens C and
D), and urethra.
Lymph-vascular invasion:
Absent.
Perinodal invasion: Present.
Prostate: Extensive invasion by urothelial carcinoma.
Immunoperoxidase studies were performed on paraffin-embedded tissue.
These show that the neoplastic cells are reactive with antibodies
to p63, but not cytokeratin 5/6, prostatic acid phosphatase or
prostate-specific antigen. These findings support the diagnosis of
extensive involvement by urothelial carcinoma rather than prostatic
adenocarcinoma, as diagnosed in the review of previous outside
material
Seminal vesicles: Negative for malignancy.
Lymph nodes (Specimens A and B): Metastatic carcinoma consistent
with bladder primary, 1/3 left pelvic. Sections of the right pelvic
lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma, four nodes.
Research tissue (block E22): Tumor (urothelial carcinoma) and
normal prostatic tissue identified.
Pathologic staging: pT4, pN1.
Total number examined: Seven.
Number involved: One.
F. Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy:
with hydronephrosis.
Marked chronic nephritis
Permanent sections confirm the frozen section diagnoses.
CLINICAL INFORMATION:
Invasive bladder cancer.
SPECIMEN (S):
A: Right pelvic lymph nodes
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes
C: Left distal ureter margin
D: Right distal ureter
E: Bladder & prostate
F: Right kidney
PRELIMINARY INTRAOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Intraoperative Pathologist(s):
C. Left distal ureteral margin, frozen section diagnosis:
Negative for malignancy.
D. Distal right ureter, frozen section diagnosis:
carcinoma.
Negative for
E. Bladder and prostate, frozen section of distal urethral margin,
frozen section diagnosis: Negative for carcinoma.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Performed by
A. Received fresh labeled and "right pelvic lymph
nodes" are multiple pieces of adipose tissue, aggregating to 7.4 x
6.5 x 2.2 cm. Within the adipose tissue are several lymph nodes.
All of the lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: A1) One lymph node; A2) one lymph node
bisected; A3) two lymph nodes, larger bisected.
B. Received fresh labeled and "left pelvic lymph
nodes" are several pieces of adipose tissue, aggregating to 8.5 x
4.5 x 2.5 cm. Within the adipose tissue are several fatty lymph
nodes. All of the lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: B1) One lymph node bisected; B2) one lymph
node bisected; B3) one lymph node bisected.
C. Received fresh labeled
margin" is a tubular segment
0.6 cm in maximum dimension.
in one cassette labeled
and "left distal ureteral
of tan tissue consistent with ureter,
Entirely submitted for frozen section
D. Received fresh labeled and "right distal ureter"
is a tubular segment of pink-tan tissue with attached fat, 1.2 cm in
maximum dimension. Entirely submitted for frozen section in one
cassette labeled
E. Received fresh labeled and "bladder and
The
prostate" is a radical cystoprostatectomy specimen, 195 g and 10.5 x
6.2 x 4.2 cm. The prostate is separately 3.5 x 3.5 x 2.7 cm.
specimen is opened through the prostatic urethra and reveals a
mucosal ulcerating mass in the right posterolateral wall, 2.5 × 2 ×
1.2 cm. The mass extends into the bladder wall and possibly
Page 2 of 3
extending up to and into the right portion of the prostate. The
remaining bladder wall is edematous. The right and left ureteral
orifices appear obstructed by the mass. Fresh tissue of the tumor,
normal bladder, and prostate are submitted for
Multiple representative sections are submitted in
cassettes labeled
as follows: E1) Frozen section distal
urethral margin; E2) anterior bladder wall; E3) bladder dome; E4)
right lateral wall; E5) right lateral wall; E6) posterior wall; E7)
posterior wall; E8) right posterolateral wall; E9) right ureteral
bladder orifice; E10) left ureteral bladder orifice; E11) right and
left seminal vesicles; E12) right prostate apex; E13) left prostate
apex; E14) right prostate mid; E15) left prostate mid; E16) right
prostate base; E17) left prostate base; E18-E20) junction of right
prostate and right bladder wall; E21) possible parabladder lymph
nodes; E22) mirror image of tissue corresponding to research IRB
F. Received fresh labeled and "right kidney" is a
total nephrectomy specimen, 12 x 7.5 x 4.5 cm, 168 g. After the
perirenal fat is removed, the kidney is 80 g and 9.2 x 3.8 x 2.5 cm.
The attached ureter is 15 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. The capsule strips
easily. The cortices are yellow-brown and granular. The cut
surface of the kidney shows a grossly dilated renal pelvis with
blunting of the cortices, changes consistent with hydronephrosis.
The corticomedullary junction is distinct. There is no evidence of
masses or cysts. The ureter is dilated which shows no evidence of
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: F1) Vascular and ureteral margins; F2-F3)
sections of kidney; F4) additional sections of dilated ureter.
tumor.
Support for the diagnosis in this case may have included the
use of immunohistochemistry tests that were developed and whose
performance characteristics were determined by
They have not been cleared
or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified
to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.
Page 3 of 3
Criteria
/ 12/14/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Prostate
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted.
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
ナ
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 12/12
+
