UUID:511CB4CS-FCEE-4EC4-98A4-4DD32ECA83C3
TCGA-A7-A0DB-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct, NOS 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
fo 10/27/11
050.9
SPECIMEN
new
A. Sentinel node #1 right axilla, hot and blue, count of 300
B. Sentinel node #2 palpable right axilla, not hot and not blue.
C. Sentinel node #3, hot and blue, count of 70 right axilla.
D. Segmental mastectomy right breast, single long lateral, double
long anterior.
E. Tissue medial to segmental mastectomy right breast. Stitch is
medial right margin.
CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:
of right breast.
Right breast cancer, clinical stage 2A carcinoma
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic disease.
B. Single lymph node negative for metastatic disease.
C. Single lymph node negative for metastatic disease.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
X
A. Part A is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"sentinel node #2 right axilla". It consists of a portion
of lymph node-bearing hemorrhagic adipose tissue measuring 2 x 1.7
0.5 cm. Within the fat two lymph nodes are present. The smaller
measures 0.6 x 0.3 × 0.3 cm. On section it is dark blue and soft.
The larger node measures 1.3 × 0.5 x 0.5 cm. On section it is
mostly
fatty with an area of dark blue discoloration. Each node is
entirely
submitted in one block for frozen section.
B. Received fresh for frozen section labelled "sentinal
node #32 palpable right axilla." It consists of a single
discrete pink-tan nodule measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. On section
it is homogenous soft and tan. It is bisected and all submitted in
one block for frozen section.
"
C. Received fresh for frozen section labelled "sentinel
node #3 right axilla. It consists of a single pink-blue
nodule measuring 0.3 cm in diameter all submitted for frozen
section
GROSS DESCRIPTION
)
the
1
to
in one block.
D. Received fresh for tissue procurement as "segmental
mastectomy right breast." It consists of a portion of
fibroadipose tissue measuring 6.2 x 5.5 x 3.8 cm. Sutures are
present for orientation. The superior margin is painted orange,
inferior margin yellow, anterior margin green, lateral margin blue,
medial margin red and posterior margin black. On the surface of
anteroinferior portion there is a possible piece of skin measuring
× 0.6 cm.
The surface of this possible skin fragment is painted
red. On sectioning, the specimen, centrally, there is a biopsy
cavity containing amorphous hemorrhagic debris and at least 1
rice-like foreign object. Surrounding this 1 cm cavity is an area
of firm dull tan induration consistent with tumor. This tumor does.
not grossly approximately margins and comes apparently closest to
the posterior margin. A portion of this tumor is taken for tissue
procurement. The tumor measures 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted following fixation.
-
BLOCK SUMMARY: D1-D2 orange end of the specimen, D3-D4 yellow
end of the specimen, D5-D20 biopsy cavity with adjacent margins.
RS-20.
-
E. The specimen is received unfixed labelled "tissue medial
segmental mastectomy right breast." It consists of a portion
of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 1.7 x 1 cm. A suture is
present on one surface. The surface with the suture is painted
orange as the opposite suface is painted black. The tissue is
grossly unremarkable. AS-1.
BLOCK SUMMARY: Tissue submitted from one end to the other and
submitted in cassettes E1-E5. AS-5.
Overall grade:
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type:
Histologic grade:
Ductal
Architectural score:
Moderately differentiated
2
2-3
Nuclear score: 2-3
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): 2.5 cm, pт2
Specimen margins: Invasive carcinoma extends to 2 mm from the
anterior margin of excision.
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Multifocal calcifications are identified within
the invasive carcinoma.
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Histologic pattern: Cribriform
Nuclear grade: 2
Central necrosis: Focally present
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): Less than 25%
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent):
Present
Specimen margins: Ductal carcinoma in situ is present 0.5 mm
from the anterior margin of excision.
Calcification: Present
Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes with mild
to florid ductal hyperplasia and microcalcifications identified
associated with benign breast
epithelium. Skin with central
ulceration, inflammation and
reactive changes.
Comments: The sentinel lymph nodes are serially sectioned and
stain
with keratin immunohistochemistry. Within the invasive carcinoma
focal perineural invasion by tumor is identified. A p63
stain is performed on several blocks to evaluate DCIS.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Lymph nodes:
Number of positive nodes of total: Zero, 0/4
pN: PNO
Distant metastasis (pM): PMX
14x3, 15x1, 20x4, 4x5
DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node, sentinel node #31, right axilla, excision
lymph
nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
B. Lymph node, sentinel node #2, excision
--
--
Two
One lymph node
negative
for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
C. Lymph node, sentinel node #3, excision
negative
for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
D. Breast, right, segmental mastectomy
ductal
--
--
One lymph node
Invasive moderately
adenocarcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ (see tumor
characteristics in the mastectomy template in the microscopic
description).
E. Breast, tissue medial to segmental mastectomy, excision
Fibrocystic changes with mild to moderate ductal hyperplasia and
microcalcifications identiifed associated with benign breast
epithelium.
M.D. (Electronic Signature)
End of Report
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnos's Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrecancy
Prior 'alignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
/ DISQUALIFIED
bite Reviewed
en 10/27/14
