UUID:6B1A202D-C715-4495-9F28-0235F69BF983
TCGA-ZF-AA54-01A-PR
Specimen Comments
SPECIMEN
1. Left distal resection margins
2. Right distal resection margins
3. Bladder and prostate
CLINICAL DETAILS
Invasive bladder cancer
MACROSCOPY
Redacted
path
OBCE
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS 812013
Carcinoma, transitional cell, sarcomatouil
Site Bladder, lateral wall
J24/30/14
1. Tubular piece of tissue measuring 12 x 5mm diameter. No focal lesion.
2. Tubular piece of tissue measuring 14 x 6mm diameter.
3. Bladder and prostate with attached fibrofatty tissue. The bladder measures
40mm SI x 35mm ML. The prostate measures 30mm SI, 30mm ML x 21mm AP.
Attached
fibrofatty tissue measures up to 120mm maximum dimension. No lymph nodes
identified.
In the left lateral wall of the bladder there is an ulcerated area 20mm.
Underlying this is a hard tumour extending into perivessicular fat, measuring
25mm SI by approximately 25mm ML. The tumour extends for a depth of 22mm and
is
very close to the left lateral soft tissue circumferential resection margin.
Elsewhere, on the right side of the urethral orifice is an area of mucosal
irregularity 15 x 12mm.
MICROSCOPY
The tumour seen in the left lateral wall of the bladder is a sarcomatoid variant
of transistional cell carcinoma/high grade urothelial carcinoma. The tumour is
composed predominantly of high grade malignant spindle cells with no
heterologous elements evident. Superficially, the morphology of the tumour is
more reminiscent of a solid conventional high grade urothelial carcinoma and
there is some overlying carcinoma in situ from which the tumour appears to be
arising. There is no definite evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
The tumour invades through the muscularis propria into the perivessicular fat
(pT3) and is 2mm from the circumferential resection margin at its closest point
(block 3B).
The macroscopically abnormal area near the bladder neck shows evidence of oedema
and increased vascularity associated with urothelial hyperplasia. There is some
patchy dysplasia in this area which just amounts to CIS in a few foci. The
prostatic urethra shows evidence of similar oedema and increased vascularity
associated with von Brunn's nests and hyperplasia but there is no evidence of
dysplasia and the prostatic resection margin is clear of neoplasia.
The prostate, vas deferens and seminal vesicles show no significant abnormality.
The left and right distal ureteric resection margins (specimens 1 and 2) show no
definite evidence of carcinoma in situ.
SUMMARY
Cystoprostatectomy:
Sarcomatoid variant of high grade urothelial carcinoma.(G3,pT3)
2mm clearance from left lateral circumferential resection margin.
Adjacent carcinoma-in-situ.
8122/3
0672
Urothelial resection margins clear.
Ref:
Pathologists -
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
W 19/14
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed
