Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Prinary Turnor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
QUAHEED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
☑
12/10/10/21/11
UUID:89A67051-898A-4E2A-A874-E0165F274E63
TCGA-A1-A0SG-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating micropapillary, intraductal 8507/3
Site: breast, NOS
050.9
u 10/21/11
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node #1, count = 3500, dissection: Metastatic
adenocarcinoma in one of two lymph nodes (1/2).
B. Right axillary sentinel lymph node #2, count = 500, dissection: No tumor in two
lymph nodes (0/2).
C. Right breast, partial mastectomy:
1. Invasive micropapillary carcinoma, 2.1 cm, associated with microcalcifications; see
comment.
2. Atypical lobular hyperplasia.
3. Fibroadenoma.
4. Microcalcifications in benign ducts.
D. Sentinel lymph node #3, count = 350, dissection: No tumor in two lymph nodes
(0/2).
-
Note:
Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive micropapillary carcinoma.
Invasive tumor size: 2.1 cm maximum diameter. The tumor is present in slices 4, 5, 9, and 10; however
the tumor has been banked from slices 6, 7, and 8. Therefore, the tumor extends through seven
consecutive slices, each with a width of approximately 0.3 cm, for a total maximum diameter of 2.1 cm.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): 2
Nuclear grade: 3, 3 points.
Mitotic count: < 10 mitotic figures/10 HPF, 1 point.
Tubule/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation in <10%, 3 points.
Page 1 of 4
-
"
Surgical Pathology -
Total points and SBR grade = 7 points, grade 2.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None identified.
Perineural invasion: None identified.
Resection margins for invasive tumor:
-
-
-
- Deep margin: Negative (1 cm).
Medial margin: Negative (0.9 cm).
Lateral margin: Negative (0.6 cm).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative (0.5 cm).
Working Draft
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative (greater than 1 cm).
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: None identified.
- Microcalcifications: Present involving both benign ducts and invasive carcinoma.
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): None identified.
- Lymph node status:
-
-
Number of positive lymph nodes: 1.
· Total number sampled: 6.
Diameter of largest metastasis: 2.1 mm.
- Extranodal extension: Absent.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N1aMX.
- Nontumorous breast tissue: Atypical lobular hyperplasia, fibroadenoma, and sclerosing adenosis.
|
- Additional comments: We reviewed the original frozen section slides and concur with the frozen section
diagnosis rendered. The metastatic tumor in Part A was only present in the additionally submitted
sections of the lymph node (slide A2). Level sections on A2-A4 confirms the diagnosis. Select slides from
part C were shown at the
the faculty in attendance concurred
with the above diagnosis of micropapillary type of invasive carcinoma. Dr.
and concurs with the diagnosis.
has reviewed A2
An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed on block C9.
The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is 3+ nuclear staining in >95% of tumor cells.
The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is 3+ nuclear staining in >95% of tumor cells.
Result of HER2/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HER2/neu oncoprotein over-expression.
An immunohistochemical assay was performed on block C9 using the CB11 monoclonal antibody to
HER2/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0-3.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein.
Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in this
category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show gene
amplification.
Slide A2 was shown at the departmental Consensus Conference, and the faculty in attendance concurred
with the above diagnosis.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Right axillary SLN #1, biopsy: Negative for carcinoma. (Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is a year-old woman with right breast carcinoma.
Page 2 of 4
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Gross Description
The specimen is received in four parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Part A is received fresh and labeled
It consists of one pink-yellow,
soft, fatty tissue that measures 3.1 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is strained and two candidate lymph
nodes are found, the smallest is inked blue and submitted with a representative section of the largest
submitted for frozen diagnosis #1, thereafter submitted in cassette Al. The remnant of the largest lymph
node is transected and entirely submitted in cassettes A2-A3, and the remnant of the yellow fatty tissue is
submitted in cassette A4.
Part B, additionally labeled
consists of a single fragment of yellow,
fibrofatty tissue measuring 2 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette B1.
Part C, additionally labeled
consists of a right breast specimen oriented
with a short superior and a long stitch lateral. The specimen measures 3.2 cm from anterior to posterior,
5 cm from medial to lateral and 6.5 cm from superior to inferior. The resection margins are inked as
follows for microscopic evaluation: anterior superior in blue, anterior inferior in green and posterior in
black. The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to lateral into twelve slices. There is gray-white,
fibrous tissue in the superior half of the specimen in slices 3-11, measuring 2.4 x 2 x 1.5 cm. White
fibrous tissue extends from this area to the anterior inferior aspect in slices 5-8. The gray-white fibrous
tissue appears extend to the inked margin in the posterior superior aspect of slices 3 and 4, and appears
to be 0.5 cm from the anterior superior inked margins in slices 5 and 9. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:
Cassette Cl:
Representative medial margin, slice 1, bread-loafed.
Representative section of slice 3.
Slice 4.
Representative section of slice 5.
Representative section of slice 6.
Cassette C2:
Cassettes C3-C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Representative section of slice 8.
Cassette C9:
Representative section of slice 9.
Cassettes C10-C11:
Representative sections of slice 10.
Cassette C12:
Representative section of slice 11.
Cassette C13:
Representative lateral margin, slice 12, bread-loafed.
Part D, additionally labeled
consists of a single, yellow, fibrofatty tissue fragment
measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette D1.
The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the
They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (*CLIA")
as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.
Fee Codes:
Other Specimens
pecimen Class:
-
Signed
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Right axillary contents
Final Diagnosis
Axilla, right, "contents," excision:
1. Scar tissue, fat necrosis and suture with giant cell reaction. No malignancy is
identified.
Page 3 of 4
Surgical Pathology –
Working Draft
2. No metastatic tumor identified in five lymph nodes. (0/5)
Specimen Class:
Specimen(s) Received:
Final Diagnosis
Review of
from
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Breast, right, 10 o'clock, core biopsies: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, SBR Grade 2; see
comment.
END OF REPORT
Page 4 of 4
