UUID:2363E39A-F372-406C-B41B-E2260D50611D
TCGA-E7-A541-01A-PR
Redacted
Gross Description: Piece of radical cystectomy with a whitish, solid, and vegetative tumor developed at
the level of the right hemibladder
Microscopic Description: Histological aspect: urothelial carcinoma, G3, poorly differentiated, with
alveolar and papillary pattern, unevenly invasive into the chorion and into the deep and superficial
musculature, but without surpassing it; with an important inflammatory infiltrate arranged as lymphoid
aggregates, which limits the tumoral invasion hotbeds; the urethral lining with preserved architecture to
the level of the surgical segment; prostate with small tumoral hotbeds of acinar adenocarcinoma with
infiltrative glandular pattern at the level of one of the lobes; seminal vesicles - morphologically
undamaged.
2. Group of four lymph nodes without tumoral metastases.
3. Lymph nodes with reactive lymphoid hyperplasia, without tumoral metastases.
4. Two small histotypic lymph nodes.
5. Small segment of ureter with slightly dilated lumen.
6. Small segment of ureter with dilated lumen and non-specific inflammatory infiltrate diffusely
distributed into the chorion.
Diagnosis Details: CONCLUSION: 1. Invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, poorly differentiated,
G3, pT2b pNo pMx.
2. Acinar adenocarcinoma of the prostate, histological score Gleason 6 (3+3), pT2a pNx pMx.
Comments:
Formatted Path Reports: BLADDER TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Radical cystectomy
Tumor site: Bladder
Tumor size: Not specified
Tumor features: Papillary
Histologic type: Papillary transitional cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Tumor extent: Muscularis propria
ICD-0- 3
carcinona, papillary transitional cell 8130/3
Site: bladder NOS C47.9
سال
11/20/12
Lymph nodes: 0/7 positive for metastasis (Left and right ilio-obturator 0/7)
Lymphatic invasion: Present
Venous invasion: Not specified
Margins: Not specified
Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: The path report doesn't specify the tumor size. For bladder cancer the T
grade is given by the level of tumor extension in through the wall not the tumor size. So, tumor size is
not relevant for the pathologist and he/she doesn't always record its dimensions.
Comments: Wall, anterior
Criteria
0 11/20/12
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dhal/Synchronous Primary noted
Pevicilias
QUALIFIED
Taustate
☐ is Reviewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
