UUID:164CD26F-CF77-4498-BFD5-BDA5B81AC30E
TCGA-FD-A3B4-01A-PR
Redacted
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Pelvic exenteration and lymph node dissection;
A.
B.
Scar tissue-abdomen:
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Yes
No
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
QUALIFIED / DISQUANEJE
Date Reviewed:
Cae is (circle):
Reviewernials
2/10/21/11
skin and subcutaneous tissue with fibrosis, no tumor present.
Anterior pelvic exanteration:
Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder, high grade, with extensive
squamous differentiation, involving left intramural ureter and transmurally
invasive into anterior cervical wall and vagina.
Urothelial carcinoma in situ (flat urothelial carcinoma).
Extensive perineural invasion
No unequivocal lymphovascular invasion present.
- Margins of resection (soft tissue, urethra, right and left ureter), no tumor
present.
See pathologic parameters and comment.
Uterus with atrophic endometrium and leiomyoma (0.6 cm), no tumor
present.
Left fallopian tube with paratubal cysts, no tumor present.
- Bilateral ovaries and right fallopian tube with no significant pathology,
no tumor present.
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
C.
Left ureter:
D.
Right distal ureter:
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
0.
P.
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Right hypogastric node:
-
Three lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/3).
External iliac:
Three lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/3).
Presacral node:
-
One lymph node, no tumor present (0/1).
Common iliac:
One lymph node, no tumor present (0/1).
Paracava:
-
One lymph node, no tumor present (0/1).
Left oburator:
-
One lymph node, no tumor present (0/1).
Left common iliac:
-
Four lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/4).
Left hypogastric:
-
Three lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/3).
Left common node:
-
Two lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/2).
Distal right ureter:
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Right obturator lymph node:
Eight lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/8).
Round ligament:
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nos 8120/3
Path: Site: bladder, Wall, Nas C67.9
Interal
:
CQCF bladdw,
wall,
Dense fibromuscular tissue, no tumor present.
Urothelial carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation
2. Grade of tumor: High grade
Page 1
047.2
ساز
10/21/11
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesical adipose tissue, anterior cervical wall and
vagina
4.
5.
6.
Tumor distribution: Solitary (8.5 x 7 x 3.5 cm)
Right lateral wall
Left lateral wall
Anterior wall
Posterior wall
Ureteral margins: Negative
Distal urethral margin: Negative
7.
Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative
8.
Lymph nodes: Twenty seven lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/27)
9. pTNM: pT4a, NO, MX
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder vi Le American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Comment
The entire invasive portion of the tumor consists of keratinizing squamous
carcinoma. The in-situ component shows both urothelial and squamous cell
carcinoma differentiation (slide labeled B11). Therefore, the tumor is
considered urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation.
XXX
[ ], M.D
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, () M.D.
Electronically signed out by [] M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is a -year-old female with a history of bladder cancer who
undergoes pelvic exenteration.
Specimens Received:
A: Scar tissue-abdomen
B: Anterior pelvic exanteration
C: Left ureter
D: Right distal ureter
E: Right hypogastric node
F: External iliac
G: Presacral node
H: Common iliac
I: Paracava
J: Left oburator
K: Left common iliac
L: Left hypogastric
M: Left common node
N: Distal right ureter
0: Right obturator lymph node
P: Round ligament
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in 16 containers each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number.
Part A. is no additional designation. Received fresh and placed in formalin are
2 elliptical portions of wrinkled brown skin. One is 7.1 x 2.3 cm, excised to a
maximum depth of 0.3 cm, and the second is 6.2 x 2 cm, excised to a maximum
Page 2
depth of 0.4 cm. Sectioning reveals no masses or lesions. A representative
section of each piece is submitted in A1.
Part B. is further labeled "2. Anterior pelvic exenteration". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a specimen consisting of bladder and uterus which is
overall 20 × 11 × 5.5 cm. The bladder is 10 x 11 x 5.5 cm and covered with
lobulated yellow fibroadipose tissue with cautery artifact. The anterior wall
and around the urethral margin is inked blue. There is a small amount of
apparent labial tissue adjacent to the urethral margin. The labium is 5 x 3 x
0.4 cm and wrinkled gray-brown and unremarkable. The right ureter is 2 cm long
and 2.5 cm in diameter. The left ureter is 0.6 cm long and 0.6 cm in diameter.
After shaving the urethral margin, the bladder is opened along the anterior with
a Y-shaped incision, revealing a partially ulcerated, partially fungating mass
along the posterior and left wall, extending across the anterior partially into
the right lateral wall. The overall dimensions are 8.5 x 7 cm, with a raised
portion up to 1.8 cm above the mucosa. The mass comes within 4 cm of the
urethral margin. Sectioning through the left ureter reveals that the mass
encases the ureter and extends to the blue inked margin. Sectioning through the
posterior wall reveals that the tumor extends to the cervix, with a maximum
depth of 3.5 cm. The tumor also extends into the right wall and comes within 0.1
cm of the inked margin. The uninvolved mucosa is edematous. No lymph node
candidates are identified in the attached adipose tissue. Gross photographs are
taken.
Posterior to the bladder is a 9 x 6 cm portion of wrinkled pink-tan mucosa
consistent with vaginal wall at terminating in a cervical opening. The anterior
half of the cervix is a 1.3 by the 1.3 and apparent posterior half is missing
and consists of cauterized tissue. The attached uterus is 5 cm from cornu to
cornu 4.8 cm from fundus to lower uterine segment and 3.3 cm from anterior to
posterior. The serosa covering the uterus is glistening red and unremarkable.
The left fallopian tube has a white clip. The left fallopian tube is 8 cm long
and up to 1.2 cm in diameter. The left ovary is 2.5 × 1.8 x 0.9 cm. The right
fallopian tube has no clip but is focally disrupted. The length of the distal
portion is 7 cm with a circumference of 0.7 cm. The right ovary is 2.5 x 1.5 x
0.7 cm. The bilateral ovaries are bisected to reveal unremarkable gray firm
tissue. The uterus is opened from anterior to posterior to reveal a 3.4 × 0.3 by
0.3 cm endometrial cavity with unremarkable tan lining. No masses or lesions are
identified in the uterus. Sectioning through the anterior and posterior
endomyometrium reveals an endometrial thickness of less than 0.1 cm. The
posterior endomyometrium has a maximum thickness of 1.4 cm, and the anterior
endomyometrium has a maximum thickness of 2 cm. There is a single white whorled
nodule in the anterior myometrium which is 0.6 cm in greatest diameter. The
endocervical canal is 1.8 cm long with unremarkable tan trabeculated mucosa.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1: Urethral margin
B2: Left ureter margin
B3: Right ureter margin
B4: Labia D5 closest approach to urethral margin
B5: Approach of tumor to urethral margin.
B6 and B7 section through left ureter, bisected
B8 and B9: Section through ureter and anterior cervix, bisected
B 10: Anterior wall tumor
B. 11: Tumor in the right wall
B12: Uninvolved dome of bladder
B. 13: Posterior cervix
B. 14: Anterior endomyometrium including whorled nodule
B. 15 posterior endomyometrium
B. 16: Right ovary and fallopian tube
B-17 left ovary and fallopian tube
Part C. is further designated all 3. Left ureter". Received fresh for
Page 3
intraoperative diagnosis is a 1 cm long specimen with a staple approximately in
the middle. The specimen is bisected and both halves are frozen. The frozen
section diagnosis is low benign ureter (both ends)" per Dr. () The frozen
section remnant and entirely submitted in c1.
Part D. is further designated "4. Right distal ureter". Received fresh for
intraoperative diagnosis is a 1 cm long portion of ureter with a staple in
approximately the middle. The specimen is bisected and both halves are frozen.
The frozen section diagnosis is "benign ureter (both ends)" per Dr. (). The
frozen section remnant is entirely submitted in D1.
Part E. is further designated "5. Right hypogastric node". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a 2.5 × 2 × 1.3 cm aggregate of lobulated fibrofatty
tissue. Sectioning reveals 2 lymph node candidates ranging from 1.5 to 2 cm in
greatest dimension. Each candidate is bisected and the specimen is entirely
submitted as follows:
El: one lymph node candidate
E2: One lymph node candidate
E3: remaining fibrofatty tissue
Part F. is further designated "6. External iliac". Received fresh and placed in
formalin is a 5 × 3 × 1.5 cm aggregate of lobulated yellow tan fibrofatty
tissue. Sectioning for lymph nodes reveals one lymph node candidates ranging
from 1.5-1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as
follows:
F1: One lymph node candidate
F2: One lymph node candidate, bisected
F3: One lymph node candidate, bisected
F4: One lymph node candidate, bisected
F5 F6: remaining fibrofatty tissue
Part G. is further designated "7. Pre-sacral node". Received fresh and placed in
formalin is a 2.8 x 2 x 1 cm aggregate of lobulated fibroadipose tissue.
Sectioning reveals no obvious lymph node candidates. Specimen is entirely
submitted in G1 and G2
Part H is further designated "8. Common iliac". Received fresh and placed in
formalin is a 2.6 I 1.8 × 0.3 cm aggregate of lobulated yellow-tan fibroadipose
tissue. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node candidate measuring 1.5 cm in
greatest diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
H1: Lymph node candidate, bisected
H2: remaining fatty tissue
Part I is further designated "9. Paracaval". Received fresh and placed in
formalin is a 1.5 x 1.2 × 0.6 cm aggregate of lobulated fibrofatty tissue with a
0.5 cm in greatest lymph node candidate. The specimen is entirely submitted in
11.
Part 1. is further designated "10. Left obturator" Received fresh and placed in
formalin is a 3.4 x 2.9 x 1.3 cm aggregate of a relatively firm fibrous tissue
with lobulated yellow adipose tissue. Individual lymph nodes cannot be
identified. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in 11-35.
Part K. is further designated "11 left common iliac.". Received fresh and placed
in formalin is a 3.5 x 3 x 1.5 cm aggregate of lobulated yellow-tan fibrofatty
tissue. Dissection for lymph nodes reveals 3 lymph node candidate ranging from
1-2.2 cm in greatest diameter: The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
K-1: One lymph node tissue, bisected
K2: One lymph node candidate, bisected
K3 and K4: One lymph node candidate, bisected
K5 and K6: Remaining fibrofatty tissue
Page 4
Part L. is further designated "12. Left hypogastric". Received fresh and placed
in formalin is a 2.6 x 1.7 x 1.7 cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue. Dissection
for lymph nodes reveals 2 lymph node candidates ranging from 0.5-1.1 cm in
greatest diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
L1: 1 lymph node candidate
L2: One lymph node candidate, bisected
L3 and L4: Remaining fibrofatty tissue
Part M. is further designated "13. Left common node". Received fresh and placed
in formalin is a 3.5 x 1.8 × 1.5 cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue. Secționing
reveals one lymph node candidate, 5 cm in greatest dimension. Specimen is
entirely submitted as follows:
M1 M3: One lymph node candidate, section
M4
-
6: Remaining fibrofatty tissue
Part N is further designated "14. Distal right ureter". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a 1.7 cm long by 1 cm in diameter portion of apparent
ureter. There is a stitch at one end which is not designated. This end is taken
to be not to the margin is inked black. The end with the presumed margin is
inked blue. The specimen is opened lengthwise and sectioned and entirely
submitted in N1 and N2.
Part 0. is further designated "3. Right obturator lymph node". Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a 4 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of lobulated yellow-tan
fibrofatty tissue. Sectioning for lymph node candidates reveals 5 lymph node
candidates ranging from 0.8-2.1 cm in greatest diameter. The specimen is
entirely submitted as follows:
01: 3 lymph node candidates
02: One lymph node candidate
03-04: one lymph node candidate, sectioned
05 and 06: Remaining fibrofatty tissue
Part P is further designated "16 round ligament". Received fresh and placed in
formalin are 2 portions of fibroadipose tissue ranging from 1.7 x 1 x 0.3 cm to
0.9 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in Pl.
XXX
[], M.D., Ph.D
Page 5
