Site:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma infiltrating duct, Nos
Bruint
4925
8500/3
"
ho
050.9.
4/19/14
)
Collection Date:
Hospital of Origin
Copy to
QC Pathologist:
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph node:
One lymph node containing metastatic carcinoma.
Confirms frozen section diagnosis.
Size of involvement within the node: 0.3 cm.
B. Left breast mastectomy:
Residual invasive ductal carcinoma.
Size: 2.5 cm.
Architectural score: 2/3.
Nuclear score: 2/3.
Mitotic score: 1/3.
Total score: 5/9, Grade 1.
Carcinoma is adjacent to previous biopsy cavity.
No evidence of skin or nipple involvement.
Deep margin of excision is free of carcinoma.
Prognostic panel was performed on the original biopsy and
will not be repeated unless requested.
Multifocal areas of ductal carcinoma in situ present in
uninvolved quadrants of breast.
DCIS is high-grade comedo carcinoma type.
Largest area of confluent DCIS is approximately 1.0 cm.
TNM Classification: T2 pN1 MX.
COMMENTS:
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Left modified radical mastectomy
with sentinel node mapping with frozen section. Invasive
ductal carcinoma, ER positive, PR positive, Ki-67 (MIB1)
33%.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Left axilla sentinel node with frozen section
B. Left breast
CODES:
UUID:926E9386-EF7C-4F13-824D-13D08B7F7938
TCGA-AC-A23C-01A-PR
Critcria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Cave is (circle):
Pewetk
QUALIFIED
Date Review:
Redacted
DISQUALIFIED
Yes
11/11/17
P.I
으
11
PROCEDURAL DEMOGRAPHICS:
Date of Procedure:
Accession Date/Time:
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in two containers labeled
A. Auumionally labeled right sentinel node and contains a
1.7 cm yellow tan fibrofatty soft tissue. The specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section 
with 
the
residual entirely resubmitted for nermanent section in
cassette A labeled
B. Additionally labeled left breast and contains a 641
gram, 20.0 x 13.5 x 7.0 cm simple mastectomy specimen
partially surfaced by a 17.5 x 9.3 cm ellipse: of pink 
tan
wrinkled skin bearing a central 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm everted
nipple. No orientation is offered or possible. The deep
margin is inked and the specimen is serially sectioned to
reveal a 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm ill defined gray white gritty
mass that resides 3.5 cm from the skin surface and
approaches to within 3.5 cm of the inked deep margin.
Located immediately adjacent to this mass is a 3.5 x 2.8 x
2.3 cm shaggy, necrotic cavity consistent with previous
biopsy site. This cavity resides 1.5 cm below the 
skin
surface and approaches to within 3.5 cm of the inked deep
margin. The remainder of the cut surface is comprised 
of
predominantly yellow tan adipose tissue admixed 
with
moderate amounts of interspersed gray white fibrous tissue.
No additional masses are identified.
Also received in the same container is an 11.5 x 2.0 x 1.5
cm strip of pink tan wrinkled skin with adherent yellow tan
fibrofatty soft tissue. Sectioning reveals a yellow tan
fibrofatty cut surface with no discrete lesions.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes B1-B13
labeled
designated as follows: B1-- nipple;
B2-- inked deep margin, perpendicular; B3-B5-- mass; B6-B9--
previous biopsy cavity; B10-B12-- representative 
sections
from the three uninvolved quadrants; B13-- sections 
from
separately submitted skin and fibroadipose tissue.
Additionally, a yellow and green cassette are submitted for
genomic research each labeled
INTRA-PROCEDURE CONSULTATION:
A. Frozen section diagnosis: Metastatic neoplasm
approximately 0.3 mm on frozen section per Dr.
:
рг
)
>
>
margin. The specimen is inkl. .s follows: Superficial -
blue, deep black, superior - green, and inferior - orange. .
The specimen is serially sectioned in a medial to lateral
fashion to reveal a 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm white-tan, firm,
well-defined mass/possible lymph node which extends to the
medial, superior, inferior, superficial margins, is within
0.7 cm of the deep margin and greater then 1 cm from the
lateral margin. The mass is covered in a moderate amount of
overlying blue surgical dye. Remaining breast parenchyma is
approximately 10% tan, somewhat dense fibrous tissue. Cut
surfaces are also remarkable for a few foci of hemorrhage up
to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The entire enecimen is
submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows:
A1-A7 are in a medial to lateral fashion. A1 is a full
cross section of the mass to show the nearest superficial,
deep, superior, inferior margins; A2. Additional section of
the mass; A3-A7. Remaining full cross sections of the
specimen; A8. Medial margin and transverse sections; A9.
Lateral margin and transverse sections.
B. Additionally labeled "2 - Left medial margin, old
margin up, new margin down" and consists of a 1.9 x 1.4 x
0.8 cm portion of yellow-tan, lobulated, fibrofatty breast
tissue, stitched to a Telfa pad to indicate that the new
margin is face down; new margin is inked blue. Sectioning
reveals tan-yellow, lobulated, fibrofatty and friable cut
surfaces. No significant fibrous tissue or distinct nodular
lesions are identified. The entire specimen is submitted
sequentially in cassettes B1 and B2 labeled
INTRA-PROCEDURE CONSULTATION:
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
THERAPEUTIC MARKERS
Test
Description
Breast Cancer Analysis using Immuno-histochemistry,
), and Pathologist review.
is a FDA approved adjunctive, computer-assisted and
interactive microscopy system which aids the pathologist in
the detection, classification, and counting of cells of
interest thereby standardizing slide scoring through
quantitative assessment of marker intensity, size and shape.
Estrogen / Progesterone
Receptors ER/PR
ER=Rabbit Monoclonal Antibody (clone SP1)
PR=Rabbit Monoclonal Antibody (Clone 1E2)
Anti-Estrogen receptor (ER) primary antibody is a rabbit
monoclonal antibody (IgG) that is used for the qualitative
detection of estrogen receptor antigens in sections of
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue on an automated
slide stainer platform used in conjunction with an indirect
biotin streptavidin detection system. The ER antibody is
directed against the epitrope present on human ER protein
Y
1.
P3
located in the nucleus of norr and neoplastic cells. This
test is indicated as and aid in the management, prognosis,,
and prediction of therapy outcome of breast cancer.
Anti-Progesterone Receptor (PR) primary antibody is a rabbit
monoclonal antibody (IgG) that is used for the quantitative
detection of the A, B and C isoforms of human progesterone
receptor antigens in sections of formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded tissue on an automated slide stainer
platform used in conjunction with an indirect biotin
streptavidin detection system. This test is indicated as
and aid in the management, prognosis, and prediction of
therapy outcome of breast cancer. The significance of PR is
its role in determining the functionality of estrogen
receptors in breast cancer cells. The presence of estrogen
does not guarantee a response to endocrine therapy. One way
to evaluate the functionality of the ER present in breast
carcinoma is to determine if the proteins regulated by ER
are expressed. PR receptor is such a protein, and has
historically been-used to monitor the functionality of ER.
The measures the percentage of positively stained
nuclei of the tumor cells.
Note: False negatives are possible. Positive staining for
receptor in the normal glands if present is a good internal
control, and increases the likelihood that a negative result
is a true negative.
=
Ki-67 Rabbit Monoclonal (clone 30-9)
Anti-Ki-67 primary antibody is directed against the
C-terminal portion of the Ki-67 antigen, which is expressed
in the nuclei of proliferating cells (normal and
neoplastic). The antibody identifies proliferating activity
in sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue on
an automated slide stainer platform used in conjunction with
an indirect biotin streptavidin detection system.
Assessment of tumor proliferative activity, IHC staining of
tumor cell nuclei, can be used for prognosis and therapy
planning. Ideal for use with small breast cancer specimens.
The percentage of positively stained tumor nuclei is
reported
The {
Interpretation utilizes the
is an indirect biotin method.
instrument. The
is a
Tissue Fixation
ER/PR testing guidelines were released which include
fixation recommendations. All tissue should be fixed in
neutral buffered formalin as soon as possible. Excisional
and mastectomy specimen tissue should be fixed for a minimum
of 6 and maximum of 72 hours. For tissue not fixed within
the optimal time period or if fixation time is unknown it
should be noted on report. Any negative Her2 IHC result
without optimal fixation time should have Her2 FISH testing
performed.
11.
P4
FISH, HER2/neu refl to IHC: CYTOGENETIC RESULTSCytogenetic
Reference #:
Completion Date:
´est
Test Setup Date:
Specimen Source: Left breast
Clinical History: Invasive ductal carcinoma;
HER2 IHC: Not AvailableInterphase Cells: 30 Metaphase Cells:
OFISH RESULTS: POSITIVE HER2 oncogene amplification detected
by FISH analysisRatio of HER2 to D17Z1 is 8.0 (average
count: HER2: 14.9, D17Z1: 1.9)nuc
ish(D17Z1x1
3,HER2x5
25)[30]INTERPRETATION and COMMENTS: The
HER2 FISH assay (Abbott Molecular) revealed amplification of
the HER2 oncogene.A ratio of >2.2 is considered to indicate
amplification.
Slides from this sample were evaluated by an in-house
pathologist and deemed adequate for HER2 FISH analysis. The
formalin fixation time was between 6 hours and 48 hours per
the submitting facility. Controls were performed and
provided the anticipated results. The imaging method was
manual. This case has been reviewed by at least 2 observers.
Results from this test are intended for use as an adjunct to
prognosis in stage II, node positive breast cancer patients.
Clinically relevant amplification has been documented only
when an invasive component is involved. Clinical correlation
is recommended. This test is also indicated as an aid in the
assessment of patients for whom Herceptin
treatment is being considered.
The performance characteristics of this assay have been
determined by
Performance characteristics
refer to the analytical performance of the
test. Reference:Wolff et al. Arch Pathol Lab Med
P5
11.
Collection Date:
Hospital of Origin:
Copy to
QC Pathologist:
*** ADDENDUM REPORT ***
ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER TWO
FISH RESULTS: Specimen Source: Left breast (
A1)POSITIVE HER2 oncogene amplification detected by FISH
analysisRatio of HER2 to D17Z1 is 8.0 (average count: HER2:
14.9, D17Z1: 1.9) nuc ish(D17Z1x1
3,HER2x5
25)[30][Specific
testing information from this report has been added to the
microscopic description]
Addendum Report Issued By:
ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER ONE
BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: (test results on block A1).
TEST RESULT REFERENCE RANGES
Estrogen Receptor: POSITIVE (91%) = 1% is Positive
< 1% is Negative
Staining Intensity: Strong
Progesterone Receptor: POSITIVE (53%) = 1% is Positive
< 1% is Negative
Staining Intensity: Strong
Ki-67 (MIB1) Proliferation Marker: HIGH (33%) > 20% is High
10-20% is Borderline
<10% is Low
These results were interpreted by 1
Indiana. An additional addendum report will follow when
Her-2-neu tests are completed.
[Specific testing information and references have been added
to the microscopic description}
The original diagnosis remains unchanged.
Addendum Report Issued by:
:
Y
.il.
11.
P6
EXAMINATION: MRI BREAST
Completed:
FULL RESULT:
ATERALI
Indication: Newly diagnosed left breast cancer.
Comparison: Multiple mammograms dating back to
FINDINGS:
Bilateral breast MRI was performed with and without contrast. CAD-stream
computer-aided detection system was utilized
to obtain multiplanar and 3-D reconstruction images. Subtraction images
were created from dynamic contrast data. All
images were evaluated at a work station.
The right breast demonstrates no abnormal areas of enhancement or
adenopathy.
On the left, axillary lymph nodes are more hypervascular than on the
right but morphologically they are similar and
symmetric.
In the anterior upper-outer quadrant of the left breast, there is a
1.5 x 1.1 x 1.3 cm irregular enhancing mass
consistent with the patient's known malignancy.
Multiple scattered nodules are identified throughout the left breast.
#1-3 cm superior, posterior and medial to the known malignancy is a
6 x 5 x 7 mm enhancing nodule. Review of the
prior mammograms demonstrates that this was not present prior to this
year's mammogram and therefore is highly
suspicious for a satellite lesion.
#2--Approximately 1 cm posterior to the known malignancy is a 3 mm
nodular area of enhancement.
#3--2.3 cm inferior and lateral to the known malignancy is a 5 mm
nodule. These are all suspicious for satellite
lesions.
#4--In the far lateral aspect of the breast, there is a 1-2 mm
enhancing nodule.
#5--Even more laterally, is a 3-4 mm enhancing nodule. This contains a
fatty hilum and these latter two nodules are
likely lymph nodes given their far lateral location and appearance.
#6--In the posterior medial left breast a 3 mm enhancing nodule is seen.
#7 in the far medial skin of the left breast there is a 4 x 2 x 4 mm
enhancing nodule. This could represent either a
benign or malignant skin lesion and therefore clinical correlation is
recommended.
Interspersed between the known malignancy and the suspected satellite
lesions, are vague areas of subthreshold nodular
enhancement. A 1.6 and 1.4 cm area of this type of enhancement is seen in
_the medial breast Comparison of the MIP
P7
1r.
projections show that these of
ll areas of scattered enhancement and
nodularity are very asymmetric to the right and
therefore may relate to additional disease. Inclusion of all of the
areas of enhancement shows that a large percentage
of the breasts may be involved with disease measuring up to 8.0 x 6.8 cm.
Multicentric disease 
should be excluded. If breast conservation therapy
is considered, then biopsy of one or more of the
nodules will be needed. The 7 mm lesion, 3 cm from the known malignancies
(#1) would likely be 
visible by ultrasound and
amenable to biopsy. Some of the smaller more posterior nodules in the
medial breast 
may not be visible by ultrasound.
IMPRESSION:
1. The patient's known malignancy is identified in the anterior
upper-outer quadrant and measures 1.5 cm. There are
multiple scattered enhancing nodules seen within the breast that are
suspicious for satellite lesions. Biopsies as
clinically indicated should be performed.
HISTORY
Allergies: NKDA
Current Meds: See attached list please
PHYSICAL
VITAL SIGNS: BP-
WNL Abnormal N/A
P.
R-
See preprocedure record
Mental Status
HEENT
Heart
Lunga
Abdomen
Pelvic
Extremities
000000
000000
PMH: fibromyalgia, Sjogren's Syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis Osteo arthritis.
-Surgical Hx: Knee replacement
., left breast. biopsy
Family Hx: breast cancer
Lab/X-Ray: ☐ Normal Abnormal (explain) Pathology, Invasive dictal carcinonia
CC/Present liness left breast cancer, Sibromyalgia, Sjogren's 
Syndrome, rheumatoid
arthritis
, osteoarthritis.
Admit/Pre-Op Diagnosis:
Treatment Plan:
Surgery Date
left breast cancer
"Left modified radial mastertony with sentinel hade mapping
With frozen section.
H&P Date_
Time
ignature
M.D.
P8
LA AUVSICAL
>
