Sample #
Gender: Female
DOB:
Race: Unknown
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
Sute CACE
812013
Lateral wall
bladder C67.2
path
Overlapping lesion
bladder £67.8
Jew 7/22/13
UUID: BDE506A5-17A5-459C-87DD-6FFBF0D713F6
TCGA-FD-A6TF-01A-PR
Redacted
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Peritoneal nodule; excision:
- Ovary with microscopic metastatic foci of urothelial carcinoma, mostly
present in lymphatic channels, see comment.
- Benign ovarian epithelial cysts.
B. "Right ovary"; oophorectomy:
- Fallopian tube, no tumor.
- No ovarian tissue present.
-
C. Left ovary; oophorectomy:
- Ovary with stromal hyperplasia.
D. Urinary bladder and urethra; cystectomy:
- High grade urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the muscularis propria and
into the perivesical tissue, with multiple lymphovascular space invasion; see
pathologic parameters.
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- One lymph node diffusely involved by metastatic urothelial carcinoma,
with extra nodal extension (1/1).
F. Left pelvic lymph nodes; lymph node dissection:
- Four lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma with soft
tissue involvement (4/4).
- Largest node diffusely involved by tumor (5.5 cm), with extra nodal
extension.
G. Right pelvic lymph nodes; lymph node dissection:
- Six lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma with soft
tissue involvement (6/6).
- Largest lymph node tumor measures 5 cm, with extra nodal extension.
H. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
I. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, margin side free of tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: 4.5 cm tumor involving right lateral wall, left lateral
wall, trigone, anterior wall and posterior wall.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Positive for tumor (11/11), with extranodal extension.
9. pTNM: pT3b,N2,M1.
Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Comment
On part A, the tumor is present only on the permanent slides.
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow.
Electronically Signed Out by () MD
Clinical History:
Patient is a
conduit.
year-old female with bladder cancer, undergoing cystectomy, ileo
Specimens Received:
A: Peritoneal nodule
B: Right ovary
C: Left ovary
D: Bladder and urethra
E: Left pelvic lymph nodes
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes
G: Right pelvic lymph nodes
H: Left distal ureter
I: Right distal ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in nine containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "peritoneal nodule".
Received fresh for intraoperative diagnosis is a 2.74g, 2.3 x 1.7 x 1.3 cm
fragment of white rubbery tissue that is bisected to reveal a multicystic cut
surface consistent with ovary. One half of the specimen is frozen and read as
"ovarian tissue, with benign cyst". The frozen section remnant is submitted in
cassette A1 FS. The remainder of the specimen is entirely submitted in cassette
A2.
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "right ovary". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.8 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm tan-brown heavily
cauterized rubbery tissue fragment. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal
fatty fibrous tissue with no gross ovary identified. Specimen is entirely
submitted in cassettes B1-B4.
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "left ovary". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.56 g, 3.5 x 3 x 1.2 cm firm white-tan nodule
with adjacent fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is bivalved to reveal a uniform
yellow-tan nodule within a 0.1 cm thick white-tan cyst wall. No gross ovarian
tissue is identified. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C1-C4.
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "bladder and urethra".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 249.06g, 15 x 13 x 4.2 cm cystectomy
specimen with attached mesenteric fat and tubing in bladder. The bladder
measures 7 x 6.5 x 3 cm. The urethral stump measures 3 cm in length by 1.1 cm
diameter and is probe patent. The right ureteral stump measures 4 cm in length
by 0.6 cm in diameter which is discontinuous and disrupted by cautery midway
through the length of the ureter. The right ureter probes patent but the orifice
is involved by shaggy indurated mucosa. The left ureteral stump is discontinuous
to suture and cautery at one segment measuring 1 cm in length by 0.6 cm in
diameter. The left ureteral orifice can't be identified at the trigone.
Additionally the bladder is remarkable for a 6 x 4.5 cm portion of mucosa
attached to the posterior aspect of the urethra to the lower posterior aspect of
the bladder. The urethral margin is inked black.
The right half of the bladder is inked blue and the left half is inked black.
The bladder is opened along the right lateral aspect through the dome.
The bladder demonstrates an indurated, ulcerated lesion in the lower
anterior-left wall, left lateral wall and posterior wall at trigone. There is an
ill-defined 4.5 x 4 cm indurated area which contains a 3.5 x 3 cm ulceration
surrounded by a hemorrhagic rim of mucosa. Serial sectioning reveals that the
tumor grossly infiltrates into the urethra located 2.8 cm from the urethral
margin and 0.8 cm from the mucosal surface. On cut section the tumor is
white-tan firm, ill-defined extending a maximum depth of 1.8 cm (tumor max
dimensions 4.5 x 4 x 1.8 cm) invading into adipose tissue which abuts the inked
surface (black). The remainder of the mucosa is tan-brown, edematous, and
glistening with a uniform 0.8-1.3 cm wall thickness. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:
D1: Urethral margin
D2: Left ureteral margin
D3: Right ureteral margin
D4: Tumor relationship to urethra
D5: Anterior wall tumor
D6: Uninvolved anterior wall
D7: Dome
D8: Trigone with tumor (closest approach to inked margin)
D9-D10: Posterior wall with tumor, hemorrhage and extension to ink
D11: Right wall uninvolved with tumor
D12: Left wall with tumor
D13: Uninvolved left wall
D14-D15: Additional representative sections of tumor
D16: Additional section of urethra
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a firm tan-pink lymph
node measuring 3.2 x 2.3 x 0.8 cm. One half of the specimen was frozen and read
as "positive for carcinoma" by Dr. ( ) The frozen section remnant is
submitted in cassette E1 FS. The remainder of the specimen is submitted in
cassette E2.
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 15.92 g, 6.2 x 4 x 1.2 cm
aggregate of fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is difficult to dissect secondary
to extremely matted lymph nodes. Dissection reveals 5 candidate lymph nodes
ranging from 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.2-5.5 x 2 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is entirely
submitted as follows:
F1-F4: One lymph node candidate
F5-F6: One lymph node candidate
F7: Three lymph node candidates
F8: Remaining fatty tissue
G. The seventh container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 19.1 g, 7.8 x 3.6 x 1.2 cm
aggregate of tan-brown lobulated fatty tissue that is heavily matted and
dissected to reveal 8 candidate lymph nodes ranging from 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.2-5 x 2 x
1.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
G1: Three lymph node candidates
G2-G3: One lymph node candidate
G4-G5: One lymph node candidate bisected, per cassette
G6-G7: One lymph node candidate
G8-G14: One lymph node
H. The eighth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.8 cm long by 0.4 cm in diameter
tan-white tubular structure that is oriented with a stitch on the non-margin
side. The non-margin side is inked blue and the margin side is inked black.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
H1: Margin side en face (black)
H2: Non-margin side en face (blue)
H3: Middle sections
I. The ninth container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.3 cm long by 0.4 cm in diameter
tan-brown, tubular structure that is oriented with a stitch on the non-margin
side. The mild non-margin side is inked blue. The margin side is inked black.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Il: Margin side en face (black)
12: Non-margin side en face (blue)
13: Middle sections
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A. Peritoneal nodule: "Ovarian tissue, with benign cyst" by Dr. [] on
and reported to Dr. []) at
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes: "Positive for carcinoma" by Dr. () on
reported to Dr. [ ] at
Diteria
and
w 7/10/13
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
mary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Qualynchronous Primary Note
Case is (ircle):
Reviewer Initials st
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 9/13
