Surg Path Final Report
*
Final Report *
100-0-3
carcinoma, wrothelial, NOS 8120/3
Site: bladder, wall, Nos
0679
Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:
Surg Path Final Report
Auth (Verified)
Surgical Pathology Final Report
سنا
2/2/12
Redacted
UUID:F4DFFCOE-5A8F-4BC0-8CF2-011F13468ABD
TCGA-GC-A300-01A
-PR
Final Diagnosis (Verified)
Left ureter margin, biopsy with frozen section:
No tumor seen.
Right ureter margin, biopsy with frozen section:
No tumor seen.
Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Three (3) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Three (3) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Urinary bladder and prostate, resection:
Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma of urinary bladder.
Tumor is present on the right bladder wall and measures 1.6 cm in diameter.
Tumor invades deeply into muscularis propria and is focally present at the border
between muscularis propria and underlying perivesical fat.
No evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
Negative perivesical soft tissue margin.
Benign prostatic tissue.
Negative seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia.
AJCC pathologic stage: T2b, NO.
Appendix, resection:
Negative incidental appendix.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
N 2/2/12
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials.
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
✗
女
DISQUALIFIED
1/31/12
Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
Comment: Additional tissue from the urethral margin will be submitted for microscopic
evaluation and reported in an addendum report..
Signature Line
(Electronically signed by)
Verified on:
1
Frozen Section Diagnosis (Verified)
FSA Left ureter - negative for dysplasia.,
FSB Right ureter - negative for dysplasia..
Clinical Information (Verified)
Bladder cancer.
Performing Lab (Verified)
Testing performed at
Gross Description (Verified)
"FSA." All frozen section control tissue is submitted in "FSA."
"FSB." All frozen section control tissue is submitted in "FSB."
"Left pelvic lymph node." The specimen consists of a 6.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fatty tissue. On examination, 3 possible lymph
nodes are identified. These range in size from 4-9 cm. "C1-C3," fragments, representative
.
"Right pelvic lymph node package." The specimen consists of a 6.5 x 6 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fatty tissue. On examination, 3
possible lymph nodes are identified. These range in size from 1.7 -3.5 cm. "D1-D3," fragments, 
representative.
"Bladder and prostate." The specimen consists of a 14 x 14 x 6.5 cm bladder and prostate with attached soft fatty tissue. The specimen has
dalan the anterior aenert The posterior anex maroin will be 
inked orange and the remaining prostate will be inked
Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
dome of the bladder is a 1.6 x 1.6 cm red-brown ulcerated mass. The soft tissue margin will be inked black. This mass does grossly appear
to extend into but not beyond the bladder wall. This comes to within 1.5 cm from the inked soft tissue margin. The remaining bladder
mucosa has a blue-gray edematous appearance.
The attached prostate measures 5.5 x 4 x 2.5 cm and will be inked black. On sectioning, the cut surface has a pale tan, slightly nodular
appearance. There are 2 clear fluid-filled cystic spaces. The largest of these is 0.6 cm. No definite tumor is grossly appreciated within the
prostate. "E1," left apex; "E2," right apex; "E3," left ureteral orifice; "E4," right ureteral orifice; "E5-E7," mass right side bladder; "E8," trigone;
"E9," left side bladder; "E10," dome of bladder; "E11," left seminal vesicle and vas deferens; "E12," right seminal vesicle and vas deferens;
"E13," left anterior prostate; "E14," left posterior prostate; "E15," right anterior prostate; "E16," right posterior prostate. Note: Please see
attached drawing.
"Portion of appendix." The specimen consists of a 1.2 x 0.6 cm distal tip of the appendix. What remains of the serosa has a blue-gray
appearance and is slightly hemorrhagic and focally charred. On sectioning, the lumen is filled with a small amount of fecal material. A
definite fecalith is not identified. "F1," distal tip; "F2," margins, all.
Also received are
project cassette labeled
Signature Line
Completed Action List:
*
*Order by.
* VERIFY by
* Order by
ind
