Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
LEFT BREAST LUMP MASS (1 STTICH SUPERIOR, 2 STITCHES LATERAL, 3 STITCHES DEEP):
- INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA, MICROPAPILLARY TYPE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, Nottingham grade 2
(3+2+1=6), 1.9 cm in greatest microscopic dimension.
- Lymphovascular invasion is seen.
- Resection margins are free of invasive carcinoma, closest margin is the anterior (4 mm).
- IN SITU DUCTAL CARCINOMA, INTERMEDIATE NUCLEAR GRADE (DIN 2) WITH EXTENSIVE NECROSIS,
cribriform type, representing 10% of tissue sampled.
-
Resection margins are free of DCIS, closest margin is the anterior (10 cm)
- Previous biopsy site
->
See tumor summary.
- AJCC: pT1c, pN1a, pMn/a
LEFT AXILLARY CONTENTS:
- Metastatic carcinoma in one out of twenty-three lymph nodes (1/23).
- Largest metastatic deposit is 2.5 mm.
Tumor Summary
Specimen:
- Partial breast
Procedure:
· Excision without wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling:
- Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen Integrity:
- Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Size:
- Greatest dimension: 11.5 cm
* Additional dimension: 7.5 x 3.5 cm.
Laterality:
- Left
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma
- Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2 cm
Turnor Focality:
- Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:
- Skin: Skin is not present
- Skeletal muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS):
-
· DCIS is present
*Size (Extent) of DCIS: Representing 10% of tumoral surface
Architectural Patterns: Cribriform
Nuclear Grade: Grade II (intermediate)
Necrosis: Present, central (expansive "comedo" necrosis)
Lobular Carcinoma IN Situ (LCIS):
- Not identified.
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma:
- Invasive micropapillary carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 2
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, invasive micropapillary 8507/3
Site: breast, NOS C50.9 3/12/n
سلام
UUID:F59538A5-7378-4E77-9899-9F38825A38EB
TCGA-EW-
A1PE-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Mitotic Count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2: score of 6
Margins:
- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
-
Distance from closest margin: 4 mm (anterior)
- Margins uninvolved by DCIS:
- Distance from closest margin: 10 mm (anterior)
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (Neoadjuvant) therapy:
In the Breast: No known presurgical therapy
-
In the Lymph Nodes: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: PRESENT
*Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: No skin present
Lymph Nodes:
- Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
- Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel): 23
-
-
· Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 1
· Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and /or >200 cells): 0
- Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (≤0.2 mm and ≤200 cells): 0
- Size of largest metastatic deposit (if present): 2.5 mm
*Extranodal Extension: Not identified
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
- Primary Tumor: pT1c
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN1a
- Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor:
Performed on another specimen:
Progesterone Receptor:
- Performed on another specimen
Her2:
- Performed on another specimen:
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (≥1%).
; Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (≥1%).
; Results: Negative
AJCC classification (7th ed) pT1c, pN1a, pMn/a
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS-ER, PER 636-PR. A48S=HER2, H-11-EGFR, All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (1) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Clinical History:
None Provided
Operation Performed
Left breast lumpectomy with axillary node dissection
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Breast cancer, female
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Left breast lump mass (1 sttich superior, 2 stitches lateral, 3 stitches deep)
B: Left axillary contents
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Gross Description:
A.
Received in formalin is a 180 gram 11.5 x 7.5 x 3.5 cm left lumpectomy specimen without wire guide. The specimen is
oriented with one stitch superior, two stitches lateral and three stitches deep. Resection margins are inked as follows:
Superior blue, inferior green, medial red, lateral orange, deep black, anterior yellow. On serial section through the
specimen, there is a tan-white ill-defined indurated mass with infiltrating borders that measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 15 cm. This
mass is present at 0.6 cm from the anterior margin, 2.0 cm from the superior margin, 2.2 cm from the inferior margin, 2.4
cm from the deep margin, 3.8 cm from the lateral margin and 2.7 cm from the medial margin. An area of tan-white
fibrosis is present adjacent to the mass. This area measures 2.8 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. No other lesions are identified. The breast
parenchyma has a fat to stroma ratio of 80-20. Sections submitted as follows:
B.
1
2
Anterior margin (closest)
Inferior margin
Superior and deep margin
Lateral and deep margins
3
4
5-8
9
Lesions submitted in toto
Representative section of fibrotic area adjacent to lesion
Received in formalin is a segment of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue, measuring 13.0 × 11.0 x 4.0 cm. Examination of the
specimen reveals multiple possible lymph nodes, measuring up to 2.4 cm. Sections submitted as follows:
1-7
8
9-12
One lymph node bisected per cassette
Four lymph nodes per cassette
Three lymph nodes per cassette
MD
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepa.icy
HIPAA Discrepancy
'rior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
teviewer Initials
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Page 3 of 3
