Name:
DOB:
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
UUID:335BFEB5-6356-43A3-896D-50BF3830859E
TCGA-EW-A2FV-01A-PR
Redacted
1
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
D.
F.
LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY:
-
-
INVASIVE MAMMARY CARCINOMA, MICROPAPILLARY TYPE with focal ductal features, poorly differentiated,
Nottingham Grade 3 (3+3 +3 = 9), 7.5 cm in greatest dimension, present in 13/14 slides, constituting 80% of tissue
sampled.
The invasive tumor is focally present less han 0.1 cm from the anterior/skin margin and less than 0.1 cm from the deep
posterior margin in 5 blocks.
- Extensive lymphovasculr invasion is present in numerous foci in multiple blocks.
-
-
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN STU, high nuclear grade (DIN 3), micropapillary type, present as a single focus (slide 7).
Skin with scar and extensive dermal lymphovascular invasion.
- Skeletal muscle is present.
-
- ER, PR and HER2 are pending, an addendum will follow.
(please see tumor summary)
LEFT INTRA MAMMARY LYMPH NODE DISSECTION:
METASTATIC CARCINOMA is present in five (5) of five (5) lymph nodes with extranodal extension (5/5).
- The largest metastatic deposit is 1.2 cm in greatest linear dimension.
-
-
LEFT AXILLARY LYMPH NODE DISSECTION:
METASTATIC CARCINOMA to seventeen (17) of twenty (20) lymph nodes (17/20).
The largest metastatic deposit is 2.9 cm in greatest linear dimension.
ADDITIONAL LEFT BREAST TISSUE:
- Fibroadipose tissue, negative for carcinoma.
LEFT LYMPH NODE DISSECTION (LEVEL 3):
METASTATIC CARCINOMA to two (2) of two (2) lymph nodes (2/2), largest metastatic deposit is 2.2 cm in greatest
linear dimension.
LYMPH NODE DISSECTION ABOVE LEFT BRACHIAL PLEXUS:
- METASTATIC CARCINOMA to five (5) of five (5) lymph nodes, largest metastatic deposit is 1.8 cm in greatest linear
dimension.
Tumor Summary
ICD-0-3
Specimen:
- Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure:
"
Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling:
carcinoma, invasive micropepillary,
intraductal 8507/3
Site: breast, Nos
0509
- Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
- Lymph nodes present within the breast specimen (ie, intramammary lymph nodes)
Specimen Integrity:
"
• Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
سر
6/1/11
Specimen Laterality:
- Left
Tumor Site: Invasive Carcinoma
- Lower outer quadrant
- Upper inner quadrant
- Lower inner quadrant
-
- Central
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma
- Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 7.5 cm
- Additional dimensions: 6 x 2 cm
Tumor Focality:
- Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:
-
-
Skin: Invasive carcinoma directly invades into the dermis without skin ulceration
· Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal muscle: Skeletal muscle is present and is free of carcinoma
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS):
DCIS is present
- Extensive intraductal component (EIC) negative
*Size (Extent) of DCIS
Estimated size (extent) of DCIS (greatest dimension using gross and microscopic evaluation) is at least: 0.15 cm
Number of blocks with DCIS: 1
Number of blocks examined: 14
Architectural Pattern: Micropapillary
Nuclear Grade: Grade III (high)
Necrosis: Not identified
Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (LCIS): Not identified.
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma:
- Invasive micropapillary carcinoma with focal ductal features
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score
- Glandular (Acinar) /Tubular Differentiation: Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures
- Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation in size and shape,
occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
- Mitotic Count Score 3
Overall Grade: Grade 3: scores of 8 or 9
Margins:
- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
-
-
• Distance from anterior margin: <1 mm
• Distance from posterior margin: <1 mm
- Margins uninvolved by DCIS
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (Neoadjuvant) therapy:
- In the Breast: No known presurgical therapy
- In the Lymph Nodes: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: PRESENT
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: PRESENT
Lymph Nodes:
-
- Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
- Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel): 32
- Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 29
-
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 2.9 cm
*Extranodal Extension: Present
*Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3, pN3a, pM n/a
Primary Tumor: pT3: Tumor >50 mm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN3a: Metastases in 10 or more axillary lymph nodes (at least 1 tumor deposit greater than 2.0 mm)
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: PENDING
Progesterone Receptor: PENDING
Her2/NEU: PENDING
Microcalcifications: Not identified
Page 2 of 4
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRS) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are concally useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS-ER, PgR 636
-PR, A485-HER2. H-11=EGFR. All immunohistochemical stairs are used with formalin or molecular food, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
Procedures/Addenda
As the attending pathologist, I attest that 1: (1) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Addendum
Addendum Diagnosis
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR, negative for HER2 (0).
Status: Signed Out
Clinical History:
Status post previous lumpectomy
Operation Performed
Left breast completion, mastectomy with axillary node dissection
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Left breast cancer
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Left breast (short superior and long lateral)
B: Intra mammmary lymph node
C: Left axillary lymph nodes
D: Additional left breast tissue
E: Level 3 lymph nodes
F: Lymph nodes above brachial plexus
Gross Description:
A.
Received in formalin is a modified left radical mastectomy specimen that weighs 190 grams and measures 16.0 × 11.0 x
1.0 cm. There is a tan ellipse of skin that measures 6.3 x 5.8 cm, an areola measuring 4.2 x 4.0 cm and a nipple that
measures 1.0 cm. There is a white lesion on the 11 o'clock aspect of the areola that measures 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Along the 12 o'clock to 6 o'clock aspect of the nipple, it appears to be slightly retracted. Grossly, no
other lesions or masses are identified. The specimen has previously being inked black and sectioned to allow for fixing.
On cut section, there is a 7.5 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm ill-defined, indurated, tan/yellow lesion that is retro-areolar in location. This
lesion comes within 0.2 mm of the deep margin, 0.6 cm from the inferior margin, 4.5 cm from the superior margin, 3.5 cm
from the inferior margin, 4.5 cm from the lateral margin and 2.5 cm from the medial margin. The remainder of the breast
parenchyma is composed predominantly of homogeneous yellow adipose tissue with a 20% stroma to 80% adipose tissue
ratio. Grossly, no lymph nodes are identified. A small section of the specimen was taken for research. Sections
submitted as follows:
Page 3 of 4
1-10
Section of mass in relation to deep inked margin, nipple and skin
11
Upper inner quadrant
12
Lower inner quadrant
13
Upper outer quadrant
14
Lower outer quadrant
B.
1
Received in formalin is a piece of fibroadipose connective tissue that measures 4.6 x 3.8 x 1.3 cm. Grossly, five lymph
nodes are identified. The largest measures 1.4 cm in greatest diameter. Sections as follows:
Largest lymph node, trisected
2
One lymph node, trisected
3
One lymph node, bisected
C.
D.
E.
F.
4
5-7
Up to three lymph nodes
Possible lymph nodes
Received in formalin is a segment of fibroconnective adipose tissue with grossly identifiable enlarged lymph nodes that
measures 12.0 x 5.8 x 2.5 cm. Grossly, nineteen lymph nodes are identified. The largest measuring 3.7 x 2.7 x 1.6 cm.
Sections submitted as follows:
1
234507
6
8
9
10
Five lymph nodes, submitted in toto
Representative sections of largest lymph node
Representative sections of two lymph nodes
Representative section of one lymph node
Representative section of one lymph node
Representative sections of two lymph nodes
Representative sections of two lymph nodes
Representative sections of three lymph nodes
Representative section of one lymph node
Possible lymph nodes
Received in formalin is a piece of fibroconnective adipose tissue that measures 5.0 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. Submitted in toto in
two cassettes.
Received in formalin are two pieces of fibroconnective adipose tissue, one measuring 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm and the other
measuring 3.0 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. Sections submitted as follows:
1
2
Smaller specimen bisected and submitted in toto
Larger piece bisected and submitted in toto
Received in formalin are several fragments of fibroconnective adipose tissue that measure in aggregate 5.0 x 1.0 x 0.5
cm. Grossly, five lymph nodes are identified, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sections
submitted as follows:
1
23
Largest lymph node bisected and submitted in toto
One lymph node, bisected
Three lymph nodes submitted in toto
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
MCQUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
A 6/1/11
Page 4 of 4
