Sex: Male
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Phy...
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Serosal implant:
Metastatic high-grade urothelial carcinoma.
B. Right ureter distal margin:
Benign, no pathological diagnosis.
C. Left ureter distal margin:
Benign, no pathological diagnosis.
(Age:
SPECIMEN INFO
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
D. Cystectomy and prostatectomy:
Carcinoma of bladder and additional incidental carcinoma of prostate.
Cystectomy: Carcinoma.
Tumor Characteristics:
KPHYSICIANKUNGODE
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
Data Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
1/26/109
10/26/11
1. Histologic type: Urothelial
2. Histologic grade: High-grade (grade III).
3. Tumor size: Largest representing dome of bladder approximately 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm.
4. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor Invades deep muscularis propria (outer half).
5. Lymphovascular space invasion Present.
Surgical Margins:
1. Margins uninvolved.
Other:
1. Associated epithelial lesions: Urothelial carcinoma in situ.
2. Other significant findings: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma is identified in specimen A as a serosal implant.
3. pTNM stage: pT2b, NO.
Prostatectomy: Carcinoma.
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, conventional type.
2. Prostate size: 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm.
3. Turnor quantitation: Approximately 5% of gland volume.
4. Gleason grade:
a. Primary pattern: 3/5.
b. Secondary pattern: 3/5.
c. Total Gleason score: 6/10.
5. Extraprostatic extension: No.
6. Seminal vesicle involvement: No.
7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
8. High grade PIN: Present.
9. Treatment effect: None identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margins uninvolved.
Lymph Node Status (utilizing specimens E and F):
1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 2.
ICA-0-3
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nos 8120/3
Site: bladder, dome 26.7.1
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: None (0/2).
Other:
1. Other significant findings: Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
2. pTNM stage: pT2c,NO.
E. Right pelvic lymph node:
10/26/11
UUID:F3408556-9259-4700-B9A0-F41E516B420C
TCGA-GC-A3BM-01A-PR
Benign, hyperplasia (0/1).
Redacted
DIAGNOSIS
F. Left pelvic lymph node:
Benign, hyperplasia (0/1).
G. Vermiform appendix:
No pathological diagnosis.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Bladder CA
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Serosal implant
B. Right ureter, clip on distal margin
C. Distal left ureter
D. Bladder, prostate
E. Right pelvic lymph node
F. Left pelvic lymph node
G. Appendix
Electronic Signature:
CLINICAL INFORMATION
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The first container A is labeled
serosal implant. The specimen consists of a gray tan nodule measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The nodule
is bisected. A portion was examined at the time of surgery. The nodule is entirely submitted in cassettes
a as follows: frozen section-1;
remainder of nodule-2.
B. The second container B is labeled
right ureter, clip is on distal margin. The specimen consists of a portion of ureter measuring 0.7 cm
in diameter and 0.2 cm in length. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette
C. The third container C is labeled
distal left ureter. The specimen consists of a portion of ureter measuring 0.6 cm in diameter and 0.2
cm in length. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette
D. The fourth container D is labelec
›ladder, prostate. The specimen consists of a bladder, prostate and attached perivesicular fat
measuring in total 14.0 x 10.0 x 7.0 cm and weighs 278 grams. The bladder itself measures 8.5 x 6.0 x 4.5 cm. The bladder has been received bisected
into anterior and posterior. The mucosal surface is light tan to gray tan edematous. There are multiple foci of brown tan nodules involving the dome
right and left lateral walls measuring from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. On the left lateral wall there is an area of ulceration measuring 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The most distal
nodule is within 3.2 cm of the distal resection margin at the prostatic urethra. The right and left ureters are probed and are patent and are grossly
uninvolved by the mass. The left ureter is dilated up to 0.7 cm. The most distal lesion appears to be right above the trigone. On sectioning the lesions
appear to extend superficially into underlying wall and is 1.5 cm from the inked deep margin. The prostate measures 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm. The cut surface
has a gray tan nodular architecture. A lesion is not identified grossly. The left and right seminal vesicle and vas deferens are identified and appear
grossly unremarkable. On sectioning through the perivesicular fat there are no lymph nodes grossly identified. Received with the specimen are three
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes
is follows
:
cassettes, one green, one yellow, one blue, labeled i
perpendicular sections taken from the distal margin at the prostatic urethra-1 and 2; sections from the lesions involving the dome-3; right lateral wall-4;
left lateral wall-5; sections from the large lesion involving the trigone-6 to 8; floor of bladder-9; right distal ureter-10; right proximal ureter taken at the
orifice-11; left distal ureter-12; left proximal ureter taken at the orifice-13; left lobe of prostate-14; right seminal vesicle and vas-15; right lobe of
prostate-16; left seminal vesicle and vas-17.
E. The fifth container E is labele
right pelvic lymph node. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 3.0 x 3.5
x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.7 cm, bisected, examined at the time of surgery and the frozen section is
subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette
F. The sixth container F is labeled
left pelvic lymph node. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.0 ×
1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. The lymph node was sectioned, examined at the time of surgery and the
frozen section is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette
G. The seventh container G is labeled
appendix. The specimen consists of an appendix measuring 6.0 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter with attached periappendiceal fat measuring 2.0 cm in thickness that is yellow to brown tan with slight hemorrhage. The surface of the
appendix is gray to brown tan. There is no evidence of perforation grossly identified. On sectioning there is a small amount of yellow tan material within
the lumen There are no fecaliths or lesions identified grossly. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes
On part D. additional sections from the prostate from the right lobe are submitted in blocks 18-20 and left lobe in blacks 21-23.
