Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
Sentinel node #1, left side, CT
ouch prep:
- No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1).
-
• Immunohistochemistry for Keratin to follow.
Left breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, NOS
3/12/11 w
C50.9
- Invasive, moderately differentiated ductal carcinoma, intermediate nuclear grade, 0.5 cm.
- Specimen margins are negative (see tumor summary).
Fibroadenoma, 0.5 cm.
-
Sentinel node #1, right side CT
- No tumor seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).
- Immunohistochemistry for Keratin to follow.
Non-sentinel lymph node right side:
-
No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Sentinel lymph node #2, right side, CT #
touch prep:
- No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- Immunohistochemistry for Keratin to follow.
Right breast additional superior flap:
- No tumor seen in adipose tissue.
Right breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral:
-
UUID:042304AE-706A-4033-A97F-3765A6AEC649
TCGA-EW-A1P3-01A-PR
Redacted
· Invasive, moderately differentiated ductal carcinoma, intermediate nuclear grade, 2.5 cm, extending within 0.1 cm of the
anterior specimen 
margin (see tumor summary).
TUMOR SUMMARY "B":
Specimen Type: Mastectomy
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s) only
Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Upper inner quadrant
Size of Invasive Component: Greatest dimension: 0.5 cm
Histologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Tubule Formation: Moderate 10% to 75% (score =2)
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Moderate increase in size, etc (score =2)
Mitotic Count: 10 to 20 mitoses per 10 HPF (score = 2)
Total Nottingham Score: Grade II: 6-7 points
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT1a
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO
Number examined: 1
Number Involved: 0
Distant Metastasis: pMX
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Venous/Lymphatic Invasion: Absent
TUMOR SUMMARY "G":
Specimen Type: Mastectomy
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node with axillary dissection
Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant
A
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Size of Invasive Component: Greatest dimension: 2.5 cm
Histologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Tubule Formation: Minimal less than 10% (score =3)
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Moderate increase in size, etc (score = 2)
Mitotic Count: Less than 10 mitoses per 10 HPF (score =1)
Total Nottingham Score: Grade II: 6-7 points
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO
Number examined: 4
Number Involved: 0
Distant Metastasis: pMX
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1.0 mm
Specify which margin: Anterior
Venous/Lymphatic Invasion: Absent
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5-ER, POR 636-PR, A485-
HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9-CMV, F39.4.1 AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are 
read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
.MO
As the attending pathologist, I attest that 1: () Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
Addendum Diagnosis
A. Immunohistochemistry for Keratin is negative for tumor.
C. Immunohistochemistry for Keratin is negative for tumor.
E. Immunohistochemistry for Keratin is negative for tumor.
MD
Intraoperative Consultation
A (FS): No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1)
C (FS): No malignancy seen in two lymph nodes examined (0/2).
E (FS): No malignancy seen in one lymph node examined (0/1).
Clinical History:
Status: Signed Out
MD
Page 2 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Patient is a
i
female with right infiltrate ductal carcinoma.
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Sentinel node #1, left side, cti
B: Left Breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral, fresh
C: Sentinel node #1, right side ct i
D: Non-sentinel lymph node right side
ouch prep (FS)
(FS)
touch prep (FS)
E: Sentinel lymph node #2, Right side, ct #
F: Right breast additional superior flap - perm
G: Right breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral,
Gross Description:
A.
fresh
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #1, left side, cf touch prep (FS)" is a segment of tan-yellow, fibroadipose
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.1 x 0.5 cm. Cassettes are submitted as follows:
½
B.
One lymph node bisected submitted in toto for frozen section
Remainder adipose tissue submitted in toto in one cassette
Received fresh and labeled "left breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral" is a mastectomy specimen, which measures
22.0 x 19.0 x 4.0 cm and weighs 790.0 grams. The specimen has an attached ellipse of pale-tan skin with areola and
nipple measuring 9.0 x 4.5 cm. The skin and nipple are unremarkable. The specimen is oriented by one stitch superior
and two stitches lateral. Surgical margins are inked as follows: superior anterior margin inked in green and the remaining
margins are inked in black. Serial section through the specimen revealed one suspicious area of pale-pink induration
consistent with previous biopsy site. The indurated area measures approximately 1.1 cm in greatest dimension and is
located in the upper inner quadrant at 11 to 12 o'clock, 0.8 cm from the superficial margin, 0.9 cm from the deep margin,
3.0 cm from the superior margin, 16.0 cm from the inferior margin, 3.5 cm from the medial margin and 12.0 cm from the
lateral margin. An area of interparenchyma hemorrhage is also identified in the inner upper quadrant, approximately 5.0
cm from the nipple. An additional suspicious area of pale-pink Induration with a granular, cut surface is identified in the
lower outer quadrant at approximately 4 o'clock. The second suspicious area is located 2.6 cm away from the deep
margin, 1.8 cm away from the superficial margin, 10.5 cm away from the superior margin, 8.5 cm away from the inferior
margin, 4.5 cm away from the lateral margin and 13.5 cm away from the medial margin. Çassettes are submitted as
follows:
Superficial margin
Deep margin
C.
Suspicious area and surrounding parenchyma submitted in toto
1
2
3
Superior margin
4
Inferior margin
5
Medial margin
6
Lateral margin
7-13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Section of the hemorrhagic area
Sections of the second suspicious area
Section of the nipple
Representative section of uninvolved breast parenchyma in the upper outer quadrant
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the upper inner quadrant
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the lower inner quadrant
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the lower outer quadrant
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #1, right side
* is a segment of tan-yellow, fibroadipose tissue
measuring 2.0 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm. Examinations of the specimen revealed two possible lymph nodes. Cassettes are submitted
as follows:
1
One lymph node bisected and submitted for frozen section
2
One lymph node bisected submitted for frozen section
3
Remainder of the adipose tissue submitted for frozen section in one cassette
D.
Received in formalin and labeled "non-sentinel lymph node right side" is a segment of tan-white, soft tissue measuring 1.8
x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette.
Page 3 of 4
E.
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel lymph node #2, right side, c' such prep (FS)" is a segment of tan-yellow,
fibroadipose tissue measuring 2.1 x 1.1 × 0.6 cm. Examinations of the segment revealed one lymph node. 
Cassettes 
are
submitted as follows:
1
One lymph node bisected and submitted for frozen section
2
F.
G.
Received in formalin and labeled "right breast additional superior flap" is a segment of tan-yellow, fibroadipose tissue
measuring 6.0 x 3.7 x 1.6 cm. The specimen is received unoriented. One of the surface is rough, irregular and appears to
face the previous resection site. The surface was inked in orange. The opposite surface was inked in black. Serial
sections through the specimen revealed no suspicious areas. Representative sections submitted in six 
cassettes.
Received fresh and labeled "right breast 1 stitch superior, 2 stitches lateral" is a mastectomy specimen, which measures
23.0 x 22.0 x 4.0 cm and weighs 670.0 grams. There is an ellipse of skin with areola and nipple, which measures 9.0 x 3.5
x 0.2 cm. The nipple measures 1.2 x 1.1 cm. The skin is unremarkable. The section margins are inked 
as follows:
superior, green and all other margins are inked in black. Serial section through the specimen 
revealed an area of 
pale-
pink induration measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm and is located in the lower outer quadrant. A firm area is present at the
superficial margin and is located 3.0 cm from the inferior margin, 2.5 cm from the deep margin and 7.0 cm from 
the
superior margin. The remainder of the parenchyma consists of unremarkable fibroadipose tissue with approximately 70%
adipose tissue and 30% stroma. No other suspicious areas were identified. Cassettes are submitted as follows:
Anterior margin
1
Inferior margin
3
Deep margin
Lateral margin
5
Superior margin
6
Medial margin
7-13
Area of induration submitted
14
15
16
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the upper outer quadrant
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the upper inner quadrant
Representative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the lower inner quadrant
17
*ative section of uninvolved parenchyma in the lower outer quadrant near the lesion
ICD-9(s):
174.2 174.5
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Qual/Synchronous inery Nated
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initiais 9
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Tate Reviewed:
T
Page 4 of 4
