Sample #
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race: White
Report Date:
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
Site: Lateral wall of bladder
812013
$167.2
path
Overlapping
lesion
067.8
28
bladder
JW 7/22/13
Pathology Report:
UUID:0F4A353C-3292-4C6C-85AC-A621109D3F24
TCGA-FD-A6TG-01A-PR
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter with urothelial carcinoma in situ.
B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- One of four lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/4).
- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 3 mm, with extranodal extension.
C. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Two of ten lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (2/10).
- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 3 mm, with extranodal extension.
D. Urinary bladder, prostate, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:
- Bladder with high grade urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the
muscularis propria and into the perivesical soft tissue, see pathologic
parameters.
- Urothelial carcinoma in situ.
- Prostate with prostatic adenocarcinoma, see pathologic parameters.
E. Right distal ureter, "true margin"; excision:
- Ureter, free of tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (microscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Multifocal, invasive carcinoma at dome, right lateral
wall and posterior wall; in-situ carcinoma at anterior, posterior and lateral
wall.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
Redacted
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (3/14).
9. pTNM: pT3a,N2,MX.
Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason Score: 3+3=6.
2. Perineural Invasion: Absent.
3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - right and left.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 5%.
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.
7. Extraprostatic Extension: Absent.
8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostate carcinoma
(0/14).
12. pTNM: pT2c,N0, MX.
Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [], MD
Clinical History:
Patient is a
year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy.
Specimens Received:
A: Distal right ureter
B: Right pelvic lymph nodes
C: Left pelvic lymph nodes
D: Bladder, prostate, vas deferens
E: Right distal ureter with stitch on none margin side
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in five containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "distal right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 1.4 cm long segment of
ureter with attached adipose up to 1.5 cm in thickness. The specimen is serially
resection and the ureter is entirely submitted as A1.
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5-3.5 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
B1-2: 2 lymph nodes in each cassette
B3-4: One lymph node, sectioned
B5-6: One lymph node, sectioned
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "left lymph node
dissection". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 0.5 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm
aggregate of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for
lymph nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-2.5 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
C1: 4 lymph nodes
C2: 2 lymph nodes
C3: One lymph node, bisected
C4-5: One lymph node, bisected
C6-7: One lymph node, sectioned
C8-10: One lymph node, sectioned
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate, vas
deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an 11.4 x 8.4 x 4.5 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat. The bladder measures
8.4 x 7.0 x 4.4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 1.1 cm and the left 0.7
cm, and both demonstrate patent lumina. The prostate measures 4.4 x 4.1 x 1.9
cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.2 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm and the right vas
deferens 8.8 x 0.4 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 3.4 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm and
the left vas deferens 9.1 x 0.4 cm. The right half of the prostate and bladder
is inked blue and the left half is inked black. The prostate is opened
anteriorly along the urethra and continued superiorly through the bladder in a
Y-shaped incision. The prostate is serially sectioned from apex to base to
reveal yellow-tan parenchyma with multiple nodular white discolorations. The
bladder demonstrates a 3.6 x 2.9 x 1.3 cm slightly raised indurated mass
involving the dome and right posterior/lateral wall. Serial sectioning reveals
tumor invasion into the muscularis propria to a depth of 1.2 cm, extending to
0.4 cm from the inked adipose tissue (not a surgical dissection margin at this
part of bladder). The remainder of the mucosa is tan-brown, edematous, and
glistening with a uniform 1.4 cm wall thickness. The bilateral ureteral orifices
are identified and probe patent. Gross photographs are taken. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:
D1: Distal urethral margin
D2: Right ureteral margin
D3: Left ureteral margin
D4: Prostatic apical margin
D5-9: Right half of the prostate
D10-13: Left half of the prostate (65% of the prostate submitted)
D14: Seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia
D15-19: Representative sections of the tumor with deepest invasion, all
full-thickness sections
D20: Uninvolved anterior wall
D21: Uninvolved posterior wall
D22: Uninvolved left wall
D 23: Uninvolved trigone
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter with
stitch on non-margin". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.5 cm long
segment of ureter with attached adipose tissue. A stitch is present at one end
designating the non-margin site. The specimen is serially sectioned and the
margin is submitted as E1.
iteria
l 7/10/13
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor site Discrepancy
¡IPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Lal/Synchronous Primary Noted Pros
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
4
