Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Phy
SPECIMEN INE
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
UUID:30B23BF3-A3EC-444C-A43A-F080EEDFB6CC
TCGA-GC-A611-01A-PR
PHYSICIAN INFORMATION
Redacted
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Ureter, right, biopsy:
No neoplastic process identified.
B. Ureter, left, biopsy:
No neoplastic process identified.
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
C. Urinary bladder, uterus, cervix, right ovary, cystectomy with hysterectomy and right salpingo-Oophorectomy:
Poorly differentiated invasive urothelial carcinoma.
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Urothelial (transitional) carcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated (G3).
3. Tumor size: 7.5 cm. in greatest dimension.
812013
Site Bladder Nos
6/12/13
C67.9
4. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor shows invasion of the muscularis propria with full thickness of the bladder wall involvement; no diagnostic tumor
identified within the perivesicle adipose tissue.
5. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical Margins:
Tumor not identified within sections of the right ureter (specimen A), left ureter (specimen B), urethra or inked peritoneal surface.
Other:
1. Extensive acute and chronic inflammation with areas of foreign body giant cell reaction within the perivesicle fibroadipose tissue.
Uterus-
Endometrium- Atrophic pattern; benign endometrial polyp.
Uterine cervix- Benign mucinous cysts with no neoplastic process identified.
Myometrium- Leiomyomas.
Uterine serosa- Serosal fibrous adhesions.
Right ovary-
Multiple serous cysts.
Serosal fibrous adhesions.
Right fallopian tube-
Benign fallopian tube with paratubal cysts.
Lymph node-
No neoplastic process identified in one lymph node.
See specimen D for results of additional separately submitted lymph nodes labeled pelvic lymph nodes.
AJCC cancer staging for cancer of the urinary bladder- pTNM stage: T2bN0.
D. Lymph nodes, pelvic, excision:
No metastatic neoplasm identified in seven lymph nodes.
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
Histologic sections confirm the presence of an invasive poorly differentiated urothelial carcinoma. The neoplasm shows full thickness invasion of the
bladder wall including full thickness of the muscularis propria. The tumor does not definitely involve the perivesicle fibroadipose tissue. There is extensive
acute and chronic inflammation and foreign body giant cell reaction in areas of the perivesicle fibroadipose tissue. Given that tumor is not clearly identified
microscopically within the perivesicle tissue, the neoplasm is assigned an AJCC pathologic staging of T2b. This has been reviewed with Dr
is in agreement.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Bladder carcinoma
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right ureter, clip on distal end with frozen section
B. Left ureter, with frozen section
C. Bladder, uterus, cervix, right ovary
D. Pelvic lymph nodes
CLINICAL INFORMATION
SPECIMEND
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in four containers labeled with the patient's nam
A. Container A is received fresh for frozen section additionally labeled 'right ureter, clip at distal end' and contains a 0.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter
cylindrical portion of yellow-tan soft tissue bearing a clip at the distal end. A representative section is submitted for frozen section with residual entirely
resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A1 labelec
B. Container B is received fresh for frozen section additionally labeled 'left ureter and contains a 0.6 cm in length x 0.7 cm in diameter yellow-tan
cylindrical soft tissue, which also bears a clip at one end. Representative section is submitted for frozen section with the residual entirely resubmitted for
permanent section in cassette B1 labeled
C. Container C is received with formalin additionally labeled 'uterus, cervix, right ovary and bladder and contains an anterior exenteration specimen
comprised of bladder (8.0 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm), urethra (3.0 cm in length x 1.0 cm in diameter), anterior vaginal wall (6.5 x 4.5 cm), right ureter (5.0 cm in
length x 0.4 cm in diameter), left ureter (4.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm), uterine cervix (2.0 cm in length x 4.3 x 3.2 cm), uterine corpus (4.5 cm in length x 4.0
x 2.5 cm), right adnexal complex (4.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm), and attached perivesicular fat. A left uterine adnexal complex is not present. The soft tissue
margins are inked. The bladder is opened to reveal a 7.5 x 6.5 x 1.5 cm yellow-tan fungating and friable mass that involves the anterior, right and left
lateral bladder walls, as well as the bladder dome. This mass approaches to within 0.1 cm of the right ureteral orifice, 1.5 cm of the left ureteral orifice
and 7.0 cm from the urethral margin. Normal appearing pink-tan focally erythematous but glistening bladder mucosa is present near the trigone. On
section, this mass extends into the detrusor muscle and approaches to within 0.1 cm of the inked deep margin, as well as to within 0.1 cm of the inked
deep peritonealized surface. This mass does not involve the uterine wall. The endocervical canal is yellow-tan cystic and mucoid with the usual folds.
The triangular endometrium is pink-tan and glistening with an average thickness of 0.1 cm. The posterior aspect is remarkable for 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm
pink-tan polypoid lesion. On section, no areas of invasion are identified. The surrounding myometrium is pink-tan and fibrous with an average thickness
of 1.0 cm. Within the myometrium on the posterior aspect is a 0.7 cm well delineated intramural nodule which features a yellow-tan diffusely calcified cut
surface. Sections through the right adnexal complex reveals a 3.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter segment of fimbriated fallopian tube. The yellow-tan
lobulated right ovary is 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. Sectioning reveals a yellow-tan fibrous cut surface with a central multiloculated, cystic corpus albicans.
On section and palpation, two firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identified within the associated fat. They are 0.2 and 0.4 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes C1 through 19 labeled
signated as follows: 1, urethral margin, en face; 2, trigone
to include vaginal wall; 3, right ureteral orifice to include mass; 4, left ureteral orifice; 5, right lateral bladder wall to include mass and inked deep margin,
perpendicular, 6, left lateral bladder wall to include mass and inked deep margin, perpendicular; 7 and 8, anterior bladder wall to include mass and inked
deep margin, perpendicular; 9 and 10, bladder dome to include mass and inked peritonealized surface, perpendicular, 11, dome to include mass and
adjacent normal appearing bladder mucosa; 12, posterior bladder wall to include mass and anterior endoectocervix; 13, posterior endoectocervix; 14,
anterior endomyometrium; 15, posterior endomyometrium to include polypoid lesion; 16, posterior endomyometrium to include remainder of polypoid
lesion and calcified nodule (submitted after decalcification); 17, right fallopian tube; 18. right ovary: 19. two whole possible lymph nodes. Additionally, a
yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research each labeled
D. Container D is additionally labeled 'left and right pelvic lymph nodes' and contains a 6.0 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan lobulated fibrofatty soft
tissue. On palpation, seven firm fatty possible lumnh nodes neaentified ranging from 0.4 up to 2.3 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely
submitted in cassettes D1 through 4 labeled
nated as follows: D1, three whole possible lymph nodes; D2, two whole possible
bisected lymph nodes (one inked); D3 and 4, one whole possible bisected lymph node in each cassette.
INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSES:
Part A: No tumor identified on frozen section.
Part B: No tumor identified on frozen section.
Criteria
سل
w 6/10/13.
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
PA Discrepancy-
Prior Malignancy History,
nual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case (cle)
Peview
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
