Name:
DOB:
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
Right axilla:
- Micrometastatic carcinoma in one out of six lymph nodes (1/6)
Size of metastatic deposit: 1.25mm
-
- Note: Immunohistochemistry for keratin was used for interpretation.
Right lumpectomy:
-
- Invasive, poorly differentiated ductal carcinoma, high nuclear grade, 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.
- Invasive carcinoma is present at less than 1 mm from the inferior margin.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ is present within 1 mm of lateral and inferior margins.
- Lymphovascular space invasion is identified.
- Previous biopsy site.
- See Tumor Summary.
ICD-0-3
Tumor Summary:
Specimen Type: Right lumpectomy
Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen
Specimen Size:
Greatest dimension: 8.9 cm.
- Additional dimensions: 8.2 x 2.3 cm.
Laterality: Right
Tumor Size:
-
- Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2.5 cm.
-
Additional dimensions: 2.2 x 1.2 cm.
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos C50.9
3/12/11
UUID:88E39E13-8ADC-481A-992E-610B3BEBCBD4
TCGA-EW-
A10V-01A-PR
Redacted
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis.
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present.
Histologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
Histologic Grade:
- Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures
- Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation in size and
shape, occasionally with very large and bizarre forms.
Mitotic count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2: Score of 6 or 7
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Distance from closest margin: < 1 mm (inferior)
Specify margins:
Distance from superior margin: 10 mm
Distance from inferior margin: < 1 mm
Distance from anterior margin :> 10 mm
Distance from posterior margin: < 2 mm
Distance from medial margin :> 10 mm
Distance from lateral margin: > 10 mm
Margins: uninvolved by DCIS:
Distance from closest margin: < 1 mm (inferior, lateral)
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (neoadjuvant): Therapy: No known Presurgical therapy.
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified.
Lymph Nodes:
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Number of sentinel nodes examined: 6
Total number of nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel):
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and/or>200 cells): 1
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (<0.2 mm 
and ≤200 cells): 0
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 1.25mm
Extranodal Extension: Not identified.
Method of evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
- Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
- Immunohistochemistry
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT2, pN1ml, pM (not applicable)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1mi
Ancillary Studies: To Follow
NOTE: Some immohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are climcally useful indicators that do not require FDA approval These clones are used:
HD5-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11-EGFR. All immunohistochemical 
stains are used with formalin or molecular fired, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Addendum Diagnosis
A.
Right axilla:
Date Reported:
MD
Status: Signed Out
-
- The tumor cells are negative for ER, PR and Her-2 by Immunohistochemistry.
- The tumor cells are also negative for E-cadherin,
- This immunophenotype may be seen in the basal subtype of mammary carcinoma.
- Additional Immunohistochemistry to follow.
Addendum
, MD
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
,
Status: Signed Out
Date Reported:
Addendum Diagnosis
B. Right lumpectomy one suture superior, two medial:
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
- The tumor cells are positive for p-cadherin and negative for CK5/6 and EGFR by Immunohistochemistry.
MD
Intraoperative Consultation
Right axilla, FS: 3 lymph nodes: no tumor on frozen section. Await sentinel node protocol for definitive diagnosis.
MD
Clinical History:
Patient with biopsy proven G3 cancer right breast
* for needle localization segmental mastectomy with SLNB. Please
evaluate sentinal nodes for metastasis and do Immunohistochemistry on permanents if frozen negative, evaluate lumpectomy
margins.
Operation Performed
Right needle localization mastectomy with SLNB, possible AND, right lumpectomy
Pre Operative Diagnosis;
Cancer right breast
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Right axilla fs
B: Right lumpectomy one suture superior, two medial
Gross Description:
A.
B.
Received fresh for frozen section is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue, measuring 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.1 cm. Seven
lymph nodes are identified at the time of consultation
. In the rest of the adipose tissue two possible lymph nodes are
identified. The fragments are submitted in toto as follows:
1-3
4&5
6&7
One lymph node per cassette for frozen section
One additional lymph node per cassette
The rest of the fibroadipose tissue
Received in formalin is a lumpectomy specimen, measuring 8.9 cm from medial to lateral, 8.2 cm from anterior to
posterior, 2.3 cm in from superior to inferior. A 
metallic localization needle is located in the anterior aspect of the
specimen. Surgical margins are inked as follows
: superior inked blue, inferior inked green, medial inked red, lateral inked
orange, anterior inked yellow, posterior inked black. 
Upon sectioning at the tip of the needle localization an irregular firm,
tan and white area is identified, measuring, 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.2 
cm. This area is up to, 0.1 cm from the inferior margin, 1.5 cm
from the deep posterior margin, 4.5 cm from the anterior margin, 
2.3 cm from the lateral margin, 1.0 cm from the superior
margin, 3.2 cm from the medial margin. Representative 
section of the tumor is submitted for tissue bank. Other areas of
the specimen are fibroadipose with a stroma to fat 
ratio of 10:90. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Sections of the tumor in relation with the inferior 
and superior margins
Tumor 
in relation with the deep margin
1&2
Additional sections (composite) of the tumor in relation with the inferior and deep margins
Lateral margin
3
4&5
6
7
Medial margin
8
Anterior margin
9-11
Additional sections of the tumor
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary fumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials.
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
1
for 3/12/01-
