Patient Name.
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
UUID:1CCAA482-BC52-4F00-89E4-31D0D9BBEAF9
TCGA-UY-A9PB-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Visit #:
Sex:
Location:
Male
Accession #:
Service Date:
Received:
Client:
3
ICD.0.3
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
812013
A. Right ureter, biopsy: No evidence of carcinoma. Site Bladder, latural wal
B. Left ureter, biopsy: No evidence of carcinoma; see comment.
13130114
C. Urinary bladder, prostate, right and left seminal vesicles, cystoprostatectomy:
- Urinary bladder: Urothelial carcinoma, high grade, 4.2 cm, involving perivesicle
tissue; see comment.
Prostate: Benign prostatic tissue.
- Right and left seminal vesicles: No significant pathologic abnormality.
D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: No tumor seen in 17 lymph nodes (0/17).
E. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection: No tumor seen in 12 lymph nodes (0/12).
F. Left ureter, biopsy: No evidence of carcinoma; see comment.
G. Right ureter, biopsy: No evidence of carcinoma; see comment.
COMMENT:
On slide B1 a few degenerating atypical cells are present. These cells are not present in frozen section
slides. The differential diagnosis includes degenerating umbrella cells versus floater.
Deeper level sections were performed and evaluated on block G1 to confirm the diagnosis.
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma.
- Tumor grade: High grade.
- Tumor size: 4.2 cm.
Page 1 of 4
-
-
-
Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion through muscularis propria into perivesical tissue.
Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.
Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
· Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None (tumor is seen growing toward prostate, but the
prostate is not involved).
Margins:
- Urethral margin: Carcinoma in situ (best demonstrated in frozen section slides).
- Right ureter margin: Negative.
- Left ureter margin: Negative.
- Perivesical margin: Negative.
- The status of the edges of the main specimen (Part C) are reported above. Additional parts (Parts A,
B, F, G) are submitted by the surgeon as left and right ureter biopsies. Therefore, evaluation of
the true surgical margin requires clinical correlation.
- Lymph node status: Negative.
- Total number of nodes examined: 29 (Parts D and E).
– Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT3aNOMX.
Dr
concurs.
has reviewed B1 along with the frozen section slides, C3, G1 with levels and F1 and
Specimen(s) Received
A:Right Ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:Left Ureter, biopsy (FS)
C:Bladder and prostate (FS)
D:Lymph node, right pelvic
E:Lymph node, left pelvic
F:Ureter, left
G:Ureter, right
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Right ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma.
FS2 (B) Left ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma.
FS3 (C) Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy: Atypical urothelium consistent with carcinoma in
situ and single focus suspicious for superficially invasive carcinoma.
Clinical History
Cystoscopy and CT
The patient is a year-old man who developed gross hematuria in
showed a right-sided bladder mass. TURBT,
showed high-grade muscle invasive
urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. He undergoes radical cystoprostatectomy.
Gross Description
☐
The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-G are received in formalin.
Part A, labeled "right ureter," consists of a single unoriented pink fragment of soft tissue measuring 1.2
× 1.1 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, with the frozen section remnant
submitted in cassette A1.
Part B, labeled "left ureter," consists of a single unoriented pink fragment of soft tissue measuring 1 x 1
× 0.3 cm. It is entirely frozen for frozen section diagnosis 2, with the frozen section remnant submitted
in cassette B1.
Page 2 of 4
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder/prostate," and consists of a single unoriented urinary bladder and
prostate specimen weighing 346 grams and measuring 21.6 x 10 x 5.2 cm. The urinary bladder
measures 7.5 x 7 x 6.2 cm with the attached anterior/superior fatty tissue measuring 10 x 8.5 x 3.8 cm.
The prostate measures 4.2 cm medial-lateral x 3 cm anterior-posterior x 2.7 cm superior-inferior. The
serosal surface is mostly smooth and glistening without grossly obvious lesions. The ureteral margins
are flush with the surrounding tissue (i.e., no appreciable length). The left ureter measures 0.6 cm in
average diameter with a 0.2 cm wall thickness; the right ureter measures 0.5 cm in average diameter
with a 0.1 cm to 0.2 cm wall thickness. The right anterior surface is inked green; the left anterior
surface is inked blue; the posterior surface is inked black. The urethral margin is removed and
submitted for frozen section diagnosis 3, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette C1. The
urinary bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly to show a large red-tan ulcerated and necrotic mass
occupying almost the entire right lateral bladder wall, measuring 4.2 x 3 cm. The left ureter is patent to
probing; however, the right ureter cannot be probed due to blockage by the mass. Upon serial
sectioning, the mass abuts the green inked margin (right anterior) with a maximum thickness of 1.8
cm. The mass appears to invade the muscularis propria with extension into the perivesical soft tissue.
The mass is 0.7 cm to the black inked margin (posterior) and 2.7 cm to the blue inked margin (left
anterior). The mass also appears to extend to and involve the base of the prostate. Serial sectioning of
the prostate reveals mostly firm/rubbery porous tissue with punctate orange-brown gritty material
scattered throughout. The base of the prostate appears to be involved by the urinary bladder mass;
however, no other discrete lesions or masses/nodules are identified in the prostate. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
Cassettes C4-C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Cassette C11:
Urethral margin, en face (frozen section remnant).
Right ureter margin, en face.
Left ureter margin, en face.
Mass, closest to green inked margin (right anterior).
Mass, closest to black inked margin (posterior).
Mass and adjacent uninvolved mucosa.
Mass and prostate.
Uninvolved mucosa, dome.
Uninvolved mucosa, trigone (adjacent to left ureteral orifice).
Uninvolved mucosa, left lateral wall.
Prostate, right base, including seminal vesicle.
Cassette C12:
Prostate, right apex.
Cassette C13:
Prostate, right mid.
Cassette C14:
Cassette C15:
Cassette C16:
Cassette C17:
Cassette C18:
Prostate, left apex.
Prostate, left mid.
Prostate, left base, including seminal vesicle.
Four candidate lymph nodes, submitted whole.
Cassettes C19-C20: Representative sections of perivesical fat.
Part D is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node." It consists of multiple soft, irregular pieces of
tan-brown-yellow, fatty tissue measuring 10.1 x 7.5 x 2.2 cm in aggregate. Eighteen candidate lymph
nodes are found ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 5.3 cm in greatest dimension. The candidate lymph
nodes are submitted as follows:
Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassettes D4-D5:
Cassettes D6:
Cassettes D8-D10:
Eight nodes.
Five nodes.
Two nodes, one node inked and bisected.
One node bisected.
One node bisected.
One node bisected along the short axis as well as the long axis.
The remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.
Part E is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node." It consists of multiple soft, irregular pieces of
tan-brown-yellow, fatty tissue measuring 9.9 x 6.3 x 2.5 cm in aggregate. Fourteen candidate lymph
nodes are found ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 5.2 cm. The candidate lymph nodes are submitted as
follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassette E2:
Six nodes.
Four nodes.
Page 3 of 4
Cassette E3:
Cassette E4:
Cassettes E5-E6:
Cassettes E7-E9:
One node.
One node bisected.
One node bisected.
One node serially sectioned.
The remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.
Part F is additionally labeled "left ureter." It consists of a single soft, unoriented, tubular piece of
off-white tissue with attached tan-brown, fibrofatty tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.3 x 0.2 cm. The tubular
piece measures 0.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The lumen measures 0.1 cm. The specimen
is entirely submitted in cassette F1.
Part G is additionally labeled "right ureter." It consists of a single soft, unoriented, tubular piece of off
white-brown tissue measuring 0.9 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. The lumen measures 0.2 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette G1.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Pathology Resident
Pathologist
Electronically signed out on
Criteria
w 1/4/14
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Note
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed 2
224/2013
Page 4 of 4
