Sample #
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race: Unknown
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
UUID:9E5D7033-E1B3-47A8-9526-D45B3113A54C
TCGA-FD-A3N5-01A-PR
Redacted
Criteria
1/2/12
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tunior Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primanoted
Case is circle):
Reviewer In
Yes
No
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
-
- Nine lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/9)
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
.
ICS-0 3
Carcinoma, urothelial, Nos 8/20/3
Path Site: bladder NOS
CQCE
0479
bladdw, posterior wall C67.4
A 1/2/12
· Seven lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/7). (See comment).
C. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:
- Urothelial carcinoma, high grade, with extensive squamous differentiation
and
keratin production, invasive into muscularis propria.
-
- No lymphovascular invasion present.- Margins of resection (soft tissue,
prostatic urethra, right and left ureter),
-
no tumor present.
· Extensive chronic lymphoplasmacytic inflammatory response and follicular
hyperplasia
in the extravesical adipose tissue.
- See pathologic parameters and comment.
- Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
- Bilateral seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia, no tumor present.
D. Urethral margin; resection:
- Segment of prostatic urethra, no tumor present
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type:
differentiation
2. Grade of tumor:
3. Depth of invasion:
4. Tumor distribution:
Urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous
High grade
Muscularis propria, outer half
Solitary, 7.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm
Involving right wall, anterior wall, posterior wall and dome
5. Ureteral margins:
7. Soft tissue margin:
8. Lymph nodes:
9. pTNM:
Effective
Negative6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
Negative
Sixteen lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/16)
PT2b, NO, MX
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
Comment
Part B5: The sections show a lymph node with fibrosis and plasmacytic
infiltrate. The immunohistochemical stain Cam5.2 is positive in rare dendritic
cells.
Part C: The majority of tumor shows extensive squamous differentiation with
keratin production (99%).
XXX
[] M.D
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D., Ph.D.
Electronically Signed Out by () M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is a
year-old male with bladder cancer who undergoes
prostatectomy and ileal conduit.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymphnodes
B: Left pelvic lymphnodes
C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens
D: Urethral margin
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in four containers, each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally designated "1. right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm aggregate
of fibrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple tentative lymph nodes
range in size from 0.5 to 2.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as
follows:
A1-A5:
A6:
one node, bisected in each cassette
four lymph nodes
B. The second container is additionally designated "2. left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm aggregate
of fibrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple tentative lymph nodes
range in size from 0.5 to 3.0 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as
follows:
B1-B2:
largest node, bisected
one lymph node, bisected
B3:
B4:
one lymph node, bisected
B5:
B6:
four lymph nodes between sponges
adjacent fibrous tissue.
C. The third container is additionally designated "3. bladder, prostate,
seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 303
gram, 14.5 x 9.5 x 3.0 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric
fat. The bladder measures 9.0 x 8.0 x 3.0 cm. The right ureteral stump
measures 0.5 cm and the left 0.3 cm. Both demonstrate patent lumina. The
prostate measures 4.5 x 4.3 x 4.0 cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 4.5 x
3.5 x 2.0 cm. The right vas deferens measures 8.5 x 1.0 cm. The left seminal
vesicles measures 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. The left vas deferens measures 4.5 x 1.0
cm. The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half
is inked black. The prostate is opened anteriorly along the urethra and
continues superiorly through the bladder in a Y-shaped incision. The prostate
is serially sectioned from apex to base to reveal a firm white 0.6 cm nodule
grossly abutting the black inked margin. The remainder of the prostate is
unremarkable. The seminal vesicles are markedly dilated and filled with a
yellow-green gelatinous fluid. The bladder demonstrates a 7.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm
fungating friable yellow-tan mass grossly involving the right wall, anterior
wall, posterior wall and the dome of the bladder. Serially sectioning reveals
tumor invasion into the muscularis propria to a depth of 3.0 cm extending to
within 0.5 cm of the inked margin. The remainder of the bladder mucosa is
tan-brown, edematous and glistening with a uniform 0.3 cm wall thickness. The
bilateral ureteral orifices are identified and probe patent. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:
C1:
C2:
urethral margin
right ureteral margin, between sponges
left ureteral margin, between sponges
prostatic apical margin
representative prostate
seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia
mass from inferior to superior
right ureteral orifice
C3:
C4:
C5-C11:
C12:
C13-C18:
C19:
C20:
left ureteral orifice
C21:
dome
C22:
C23:
anterior wall
posterior wall
C24:
left wall
C25:
trigone
D. The fourth container is additionally designated "4. urethral margin".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unremarkable-oriented 1.5 x 1.0 x
0.5 cm portion of tissue which is focally cauterized. The specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette D1.
XXX
[], M.D.
