Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Location:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. Sentinel node #1 ( ) right FS:
- Metastatic carcinoma into one lymph node (1/1)
B. Sentinel node #2 ( ) FS:
- Metastatic carcinoma into theree out of four lymph nodes (3/4)
C. Sentinel node #3 ( } FS:
-
One benign lymph node (0/1)
D. Right breast lumpectomy, long - lateral, short - superior:
- in situ and invasive carcinoma
-
- The entire tumor mass measures 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions
-
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
050.9
- The invasive component represents the majority of the tumor mass and is of Nottingham grade of 3 +3 +3=9/9
- Foci of vascular invasion are noted
"
-
3/12/11
- The in-situ component is of ductal type, high nuclear grade with central necrosis and calcifications (comedocarcinoma)
All margins of resection appear free of invasive and intraductal carcinoma
-The closest margins of resection are the medial and anterior at 4 mm from the tumor
-
- The non-neoplastic breast tissue shows fibroproliferative disease, radial scar, atypical ductal hyperplasia and changes consistent
with previous biopsy site
D. Right axillary content:
- Metastatic carcinoma into six out of twenty-thre lymph nodes (6/23)
E. Level 3 (right) permanent:
- Metastatic carcinoma into one out of three lymph nodes (1/3)
Tumor Summary:
Specimen Type Lumpectomy
Lymph Node Sampling: Axillary dissection
UUID:AE0C51EF-017E-4F53-968C-804110F9A7E6
TCGA-EW-A1P1-01A-PR
Redacted
Specimen Size (for excisions less than total mastectomy): 6 cm in greatest dimensions
Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Not specified
Size of Invasive Component: 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions
Histologic Type: Ductal
Histologic Grade (any grading system may be used; mitotic count is also required independent of the grading system): 3 +3 +3=9/9
Total Nottingham Score:9/9
Margins: Free
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
PT 2, N3, MX
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS-ER. PgR 636-PR, A4RS-HER2, H-11=EGFR. All immunohistochemical 
stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
Intraoperative Consultation
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
***Electronically Signed Out By***
A. Sentinel node #1 (
right FS: Metastatic adenocarcinoma to one lymph node (1/1).
B. Sentinel node #2 (
> FS: Metastatic adenocarcinoma to three of four lymph nodes (3/4).
C. Sentinel node #3 (
) FS: One lymph node, no tumor seen (0/1).
MD
Clinical History:
None provided
Operation Performed
Right breast lumpectomy with sentinel node biopsy, possible axillary node dissection; possible left breast reduction
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Breast cancer
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Sentinel node #1
›) right FS
B: Sentinel node #2 (
) FS
) FS
C: Sentinel node #3 (
D: Right breast lumpectomy, long - lateral, short - superior
E: Right axillary content
F: Level 3 (right) permanent
Gross Description:
A.
B.
C.
D.
Received fresh is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue, measuring 2.3 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. One lymph node is ill-
defined. The lymph node is submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen section.
Received fresh is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue, measuring 3.2 x 1.7 x 0.9 cm. Four lymph nodes are
grossly identified. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto as follows:
1
2
One lymph node for frozen
Lymph node for frozen section.
Received fresh is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue, measuring 1.9 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm. One lymph node is grossly
identified. The lymph node is submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen section.
Received in formalin is a lumpectomy specimen measuring 6 cm from medial to lateral, 5.4 cm from superior to inferior
and 4.4 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen has an ellipse of skin in the anterior 
surface measuring 3.8 x 0.9 
cm.
The specimen is labelled as follows: long stitch lateral; short stitch superior. The margin is inked 
as follows: Anterior
yellow, posterior black, superior blue, inferior green, medial red, lateral orange. Upon sectioning 
ill-defined firm white 
and
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
tan mass is identified measuring 2.3 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The mass is 1 cm from the lateral margin up to 1.6 cm from the
superior margin, 0.5 cm from the inferior margin, 0.5 cm from the posterior margin, 0.4 cm from the medial margin and 0.4
cm from the anterior margin from the skin. Other areas of the mastectomy specimen show unremarkable fibroadipose
tissue. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
1
2
Lateral margin
Superior margin
E.
3
4
5
8
7-8
Anterior margin and skin in relation with the tumor
Medial margin in relation with the tumor
Posterior margin in relation with the tumor
Inferior margin in relation with the turnor
Other areas of the mass
Received in formalin are multiple irregular fragments of fibroadipose tissue measuring 9 x 7.5 x 2.2 cm in aggregate.
Five possible lymph nodes are identified. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto-→ as follows:
1-2
3-4
One lymph node bisected per cassette
Lymph node bisected per cassette
Three lymph nodes bisected per c assette
5-6
7-8
Four tymph nodes per cassette
F.
Received in formalin are four irregular fragments of soft tan brown and yellow tissue measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0,4 cm in
aggregate. Submitted in toto in one cassette.
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Disc. epancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dua!/Synchronous Primary Neted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIFO
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 11
3/12/1 سال
Page 3 of 3
