UUID:89C0C498-8414-4CF3-A1BE-3AF53C6DE610
TCGA-GD-A76B-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-O-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
Site
выск
812013
Bladder NOS C67.9
pata
Bladder, overlapping leatin
Carterior/posterior walls)
8238/22/13
C67.8
Operative Procedure:
Radical cystectomy with urinary diversion, ileal loop.
Pre-Operative Diagnosis:
Bladder CA
Specimen Received:
A: Right distal ureter (FS)
B: Left distal ureter (FS)
C: Right ovary
D: Bladder, fallopian tube, vagina and left ovary
E: Right lower pelvic lymph nodes
F: Left upper pelvic lymph nodes
G: Left lower pelvic lymph nodes
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Ureter, right distal, biopsy for frozen section diagnosis:
Segment of ureter, negative for malignancy
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
B. Ureter, left distal, biopsy for frozen section diagnosis:
Segment of ureter, negative for malignancy
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
C. Ovary and fallopian tube, right, salpingoophorectomy:
Ovary with no significant pathologic change
Fallopian tube with Walthard cell rests
D. Urinary bladder, radical cystectomy:
Tumor histologic type:
Variant histology (%):
Tumor size:
Urothelial carcinoma
Not identified
2.4 x 1.2 cm (largest anterior wall mass
3.3 cm
Additional dimensions:
predominantly papillary)
Grade (WHO 2004):
High
Tumor configuration:
Papillary (anterior wall mass) and focal residual
invasive carcinoma (posterior wall mass)
Associated epithelial lesions:
Microscopic tumor extension:
(see Note)
Urothelial dysplasia
Tumor focally invades deep muscularis propria
Lymph-vascular invasion:
Not identified
Margins
Urethral:
Free of neoplasm
Ureteral:
Free of neoplasm (frozen section diagnoses
confirmed)
Paravesical soft tissue:
Other (specify):
Free of neoplasm
Not applicable
Pseudosarcomatous myofibroblastic
Additional pathologic findings:
proliferation, consistent with previous transurethral
resection site reaction involving posterior wall with focal residual invasive
carcinoma
Grossly inconspicuous microscopic focus of invasive
urothelial carcinoma involving the
right lateral
wall
Paravesical fat necrosis
None
Paravesical lymph nodes:
All lymph nodes:
O positive of 22 lymph nodes (all parts)
Size of largest lymph node metastasis: Not applicable
Extranodal extension (location): Not applicable
Pathologic stage (2010)
pT2b pN0 pM-not applicable
Ovary and fallopian tube, left, salpingoophorectomy:
No significant pathologic change
Vaginal mucosal, partial resection:
No significant pathologic change
E. Lymph nodes (9), right lower pelvic, regional resection:
Nine lymph nodes with no pathologic change (0/9)
F. Lymph nodes (12), left upper pelvic, regional resection:
Twelve lymph nodes with no pathologic change (0/12)
G. Lymph node (1), left lower pelvic, regional resection:
One lymph node with no pathologic change (0/1, specimen submitted entirely
for microscopic examination)
The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.
Note:
The anterior wall mass is predominantly papillary without invasion. The
posterior wall mass is composed predominantly of a pseudosarcomatous
myofibroblastic proliferation that extends deep into the muscularis propria,
likely the result of the previous transurethral resection. Nests of atypical
cells are present deep in this myofibroblastic proliferation. In order to
confirm the epithelial nature of these cells and distinguish them from the
reactive process, immunohistochemical staining is performed. Immunohistochemical
stains highlight numerous nests of invasive urothelial carcinoma cells, most of
which were light microscopically inconspicuous (positive for p63 and cytokeratin
cocktail). The tumor is negative for GATA3, which is relatively specific but not
entirely sensitive for urothelial carcinoma. Controls stain appropriately.
Multiple additional sections of this area are also examined, revealing similar
findings.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Right distal ureter:
Negative for malignancy.
FSB: Left distal ureter:
Negative for malignancy.
F/S TAT:
Gross Description:
A. Received without fixative labeled and "right distal
ureter" is a 0.5 x 0.4 cm tan, tubular soft tissue with minimal adherent fat,
submitted in toto for frozen section microscopy, now in cassette A.
B. Received without fixative labeled and "left distal
ureter" is a 0.5 x 0.5 cm tan, tubular soft tissue with minimal adherent fat,
submitted in toto for frozen section microscopy, now in cassette B.
C. Received in formalin, labeled and "right ovary" is a 5.0
× 0.4 cm purple-pink, fimbriated fallopian tube with attached 3.0 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm
tan, lobulated intact ovary. The fallopian tube on sectioning contains a
pinpoint lumen. The ovary on sectioning is tan, heterogeneous with a 0.3 cm
smooth walled uniloculated cyst. Representative sections are submitted in one
cassette.
D. Received in formalin, labeled and "bladder, fallopian
tube, left ovary, vagina" is a 5.0 x 4.2 x 3.8 cm urinary bladder with attached
bilateral segments of distal ureter (each 1.5 × 0.4 cm), 2.9 x 1.0 cm urethra,
4.8 x 4.8 cm tan-pink, wrinkled irregular anterior wall of vagina and a moderate
amount of attached fat. Involving the anterior wall of the bladder is a 3.3 x
2.4 x 1.2 cm tan-pink, irregular, papillary appearing, well delineated mass that
comes to within 2.7 cm from the urethral margin. This mass on sectioning is
tan-pink, soft, friable with no definite invasion, coming to within 0.9 cm from
the inked soft tissue margin. On the posterior wall of the bladder is a 3.2 x
1.7 cm tan-pink, irregular ulcerated, well delineated mass that comes to within
5.5 cm from the urethral margin. This mass on sectioning, the uninvolved bladder
mucosa is tan-pink and wrinkled. No involvement of the vaginal mucosa is
present. No lymph nodes are identified in the attached fat.
Received in the same container is a 3.8 x 0.5 cm purple-pink, fimbriated
fallopian tube with attached 2.0 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm tan, lobulated intact ovary. The
fallopian tube on sectioning contains a pinpoint lumen. The ovary on sectioning
is tan and heterogeneous with no discrete lesions.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1
D2
D3
D4
D5-8
urethral margin taken en face;
right lateral vaginal mucosal margin taken en face;
left lateral vaginal mucosal margin taken en face;
superior vaginal mucosal margin taken en face;
mass anterior wall of bladder to inked soft tissue margin;
D9mass posterior wall of bladder to inked soft tissue margin;
D10-11 mass posterior wall of bladder;
vaginal wall;
uninvolved right lateral wall of bladder;
uninvolved left lateral wall of bladder;
D12
D13
D14
D15
uninvolved dome of bladder;
D16
trigone;
D17
D18-19
D20-21
D22-29
ovary and fallopian tube;
perivesicular fat for possible lymph node capture;
peri dome fat for possible lymph node capture.
remainder of posterior wall mass
E. Received in formalin, labeled and "right lower pelvic
lymph nodes" is a 6.9 x 4.3 x 1.8 cm aggregate of tan, lobulated irregular fatty
tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple tan-pink, rubbery lymph nodes up to 3.5 x
2.0 x 1.0 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
multiple whole lymph nodes;
one whole lymph node bisected;
one whole lymph node bisected;
E1
E2
E3
E4
E5
one whole lymph node bisected;
one whole lymph node bisected;
E6
one whole lymph node trisected;
E7-9
one whole lymph node step sectioned.
F. Received in formalin, labeled and "left upper pelvic
lymph nodes" is a 5.7 x 5.4 x 2.8 cm aggregate of tan, lobulated irregular fatty
tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple tan-pink, rubbery lymph nodes up to 4.8 x
1.4 x 1.0 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
F1-2 multiple whole lymph nodes;
F3 one whole lymph node bisected;
F4-5
F6-11
one whole lymph node bisected;
one whole lymph node step sectioned.
G. Received in formalin, labeled and "left lower pelvic
lymph nodes" is a 4.2 x 3.7 x 1.8 cm aggregate of tan, lobulated irregular fatty
tissue. Sectioning reveals a tan, lobulated cut surface with no discrete lymph
nodes. The specimen is entirely submitted in eight cassettes.
Please note, allfat is placed in a clearing fixative prior to searching for
lymph nodes.
Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.
END OF REPORT
Taken:
DOB:
(Age: Gender: F
Yes'
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
8/9/13
QUALIFIE ✓ DEQUARFIED
Cate Reviewad
