Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
UUID:9521187B-B7A8-48F8-860A-57A28664BD26
TCGA-UY-A9PF-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Visit #:
Sex:
Location:
Male
Accession #:
Service Dates
Received:
Client:
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Ureter, left, biopsy: No carcinoma.
B. Ureter, right, biopsy: No carcinoma.
ICD 0.5
Carcinoma, mothelial papillary
8130/3
0672
Site Bladder, lateral wall
) 03/31/14
C. Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
- Urinary bladder:
1. High-grade urothelial carcinoma with micropapillary features, invading
through muscularis propria into perivesicular adipose tissue.
2. Mucosal ulceration with granulomatous inflammation and calcification.
3. No carcinoma in one perivesicular lymph node (0/1).
-
Prostate: No carcinoma.
Seminal Vesicles: No carcinoma.
D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in one of nine
lymph nodes (1/9).
E. Urethra, final margin, biopsy: No carcinoma.
F. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in three of seven
lymph nodes (3/7).
G. Ureter, left, biopsy: No carcinoma.
H. Ureter, right, biopsy: No carcinoma.
COMMENT:
Page 1 of 5
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with micropapillary features and focal squamous and glandular
differentiation.
- Tumor grade: High grade.
- Tumor size: 4.2 x 1.7 x 1.6 cm.
5%
<5%
Per TSS.
- Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion through muscularis propria into perivesical tissue.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Present in lymphatics.
- Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
· Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
- Margins:
-
Urethral margin: Negative (invasive tumor is greater than 1 cm from margin; dysplasia/CIS is
greater than 1 cm from margin). Final urethral margin specimen (part E) is negative for carcinoma.
- Right ureter margin: Negative (invasive tumor is greater than 3.1 cm from margin; dysplasia/CIS
is greater than 3.1 cm from margin). Final right ureter margin specimen (part H) is negative for
carcinoma.
-
Left ureter margin: Negative (invasive tumor is greater than 0.8 cm from margin; dysplasia/CIS is
greater than 0.8 cm from margin). Final left ureter margin specimen (part G) is negative for carcinoma.
Perivesical margin: Negative (invasive tumor is 0.2 cm from margin (left lateral, slide C4;
dysplasia/CIS is greater than 1 cm from margin).
-
- Lymph node status: Positive
-
-
- total number of positive nodes: 4.
- total number of nodes examined: 17.
- Size of largest metastasis in node: 0.8 cm.
- Extranodal extension: None.
Other pathologic findings in bladder: Granulomatous inflammation, ulcer, calcifications.
AJCC/UICC stage: pT3aN2.
Level sections were obtained and evaluated to confirm the diagnosis.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:Ureter, biopsy (FS)
C:Bladder and prostate (FS on urethral apex)
D:Lymph node, right pelvic
E:Final urethral margin
F:Lymph node, left pelvic
G:Distal left ureter
H:Distal right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Left ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma.
FS2 (B) Right ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma.
FS3 (C) Urethral margin on bladder and prostate, biopsy: No carcinoma.
Clinical History
The patient is al
has high-grade, T2
He is
-year-old man who, per the electronic medical record
transitional cell carcinoma diagnosed on transurethral resection of bladder tumor on
now undergoing a radical cystoprostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.
Gross Description
The specimen is received in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
Page 2 of 5
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-H are all received in formalin.
Part A, labeled "left ureter," consists of a single soft, irregular piece of off-white/pink tissue (0.4 x 0.4 x
0.2 cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 1 and subsequently submitted in
cassette A1.
Part B, labeled "right ureter," consists of a single soft, irregular piece of off-white pink tissue (0.4 × 0.4
x 0.2 cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 2 and subsequently submitted in
cassette B1.
Part C is labeled "bladder and prostate," and consists of a cystoprostatectomy specimen (664 gm; 11.3
cm from right to left x 6.8 cm from anterior to posterior x 23 cm from superior to inferior).
GROSS PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: There is a soft, tan-pink, friable, papillary lesion (1.6 cm from right to
left x 4.2 cm from superior to inferior x 1.7 cm deep) apparently extending into the perivesicular fat.
The lesion is centered above the left trigone area, abutting the left ureteral orifice, and extends
superiorly up the left lateral wall to 1.1 cm below the dome of the bladder. The muscular invasion
appears to extend from the left lateral to the right lateral wall just past the midline, and in the right
lateral wall involving a portion of the muscle that is 3.5 × 1 × 0.8 cm, and not extending into the fat of
the right lateral bladder wall. The main lesion is 1 cm from the urethral orifice, 0.8 cm from the left
ureteral orifice, 3.1 cm from the right ureteral orifice, and 0.9 cm at the closest approach to the
perivesicular fat margin (left, blue); 0.5 cm from the right external perivesicular margin the right lateral
wall portion of the lesion. The lesion does not involve the ureteral orifice. The surrounding bladder
mucosa is pink, smooth, boggy, and edematous with punctate hemorrhages in the trigone area. The
attached prostate is pink-tan and lobular with nodules ranging from 0.5-0.8 cm in greatest dimension,
mostly in the anterior portion of the gland.
The ureters are not attached. The attached perivesicular and periprostatic fat is carefully searched for
lymph nodes.
ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks.
INTRAOPERATIVE EVALUATION: Frozen section of left ureter, en face (frozen section 1), submitted as
A1. Frozen section of right ureter margin, en face (frozen section 2), submitted as B1. Frozen section
of bladder and prostate at apex (frozen section 3), submitted as C1.
INKING:
-
· Anterior right surface: Green.
Anterior left surface: Blue.
Posterior surface: Black.
GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes.
CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Bladder and prostate frozen section remnant.
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, deepest extent of invasion, including deep margin (blue),
bisected (bisected surface is black).
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, representative section (1.8 cm from ureteral orifice).
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, with approach to left ureteral orifice.
Lesion, right lateral bladder wall, closest approach to deep perivesicular margin (black).
Lesion, with closest approach to deep black margin (0.8 cm).
C1:
C2-C3:
C4:
C5:
C6:
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, with approach to bladder dome.
C7:
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, with approach to normal mucosa laterally.
C8:
C9:
C10:
C11:
C12-C13:
C14:
C15:
C16:
Right lateral bladder wall, apparently normal.
C17:
C18:
Left ureteral margin, en face.
Right ureteral margin, en face.
Uninvolved right ureteral orifice, bisected (perpendicular section).
Lesion with approach to left ureter, and deep margin (perpendicular section).
Bladder dome, apparently normal.
Lesion, posterior bladder wall.
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, with closest approach to urethral orifice (perpendicular
Page 3 of 5
C19:
C20:
C21:
C22:
C23:
C24:
C25:
C26:
C27-C28:
C29-C30:
C31:
C32:
section).
Lesion, left lateral bladder wall, closest approach to prostate (parallel section).
Prostate, prostatic urethral margin, en face.
Prostate, right anterior and posterior apical one-third of gland.
Prostate, right anterior and posterior middle third of gland.
Prostate, right anterior and posterior base of gland.
Prostate, left anterior and posterior apical one-third of gland.
Prostate, left anterior and posterior middle third of gland.
Prostate, left anterior and posterior base of gland.
Candidate lymph nodes, right perivesicular fat.
Candidate lymph nodes, left perivesicular fat.
Seminal vesicle, left, representative section.
Seminal vesicle, right, representative section..
Part D is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," and consists of multiple soft to firm, irregular,
unoriented, tan-yellow/brown, fibrofatty tissue fragments (8.5 x 8 x 4 cm in aggregate). Multiple
candidate lymph nodes (0.6-5.4 cm in greatest dimension) are found. The largest candidate lymph
node has mostly pink-white tissue mixed with homogeneous, yellow parenchyma. The second-largest
candidate lymph node (3.5 cm in greatest dimension) has pink-yellow/red parenchyma. The remaining
candidate lymph nodes are left intact. Representative sections (but all candidate lymph nodes) are
submitted in cassettes as follows:
D1-D4:
D5-D7:
D8:
D9:
Largest candidate lymph node.
Second-largest candidate lymph node.
Two intact candidate lymph nodes.
Four intact candidate lymph nodes.
Part E is additionally labeled "final urethral margin," and consists of a single soft to firm, slightly ovoid,
unoriented, tan-white/pink tissue fragment (1.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm). There is an off-centered lumen
(internal luminal diameter is 0.2 cm) that is patent and present. The margin is inked blue. The entire
specimen is submitted in cassette E1.
Part F is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node," and consists of multiple soft to firm, irregular,
unoriented, tan-yellow/brown, fibrofatty tissue fragments (7.5 x 7.5 x 2.8 cm in aggregate). Multiple
candidate lymph nodes (0.3 cm to 8 cm in greatest dimension) are found. The largest candidate lymph
node has firm, pink, surrounded by yellow, parenchyma. The second-largest candidate lymph node (1.6
cm in greatest dimension) has firm, white-pink parenchyma. The remaining candidate lymph nodes are
left intact. Representative sections (but all candidate lymph nodes) are submitted in cassettes as
follows:
F1-F6:
F7:
F8:
F9:
Largest candidate lymph node.
Second-largest candidate lymph node.
Three intact candidate lymph nodes.
Four intact candidate lymph nodes.
Part G is additionally labeled "distal left ureter," and consists of a single unoriented, tubular, tan-brown
tissue fragment (1.2 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter). The lumen is patent (0.2 cm internal luminal
diameter). One-half of the tissue is inked blue and the other half is inked black. The entire specimen is
submitted in cassette G1.
Part H is additionally labeled "distal right ureter," and consists of a single unoriented, tubular,
tan-brown tissue fragment (2.6 cm in length x 1.5 cm in diameter). The lumen is patent (0.2 cm
internal luminal diameter). One-half is inked blue with the other half Inked black. The entire specimen
is submitted in cassettes H1 and H2.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Pathology Resident
Electronically
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
/ 1/22/14
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIES
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed 224/2013
