Case Number:
Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
A: Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy
Collection Date:
ICD-0-3
carcinon, wrothelial NOS 8120/3
Site bladder, NOS
067.9
2/18/11
Bladder primary:
Tumor histologic type: urothelial carcinoma
سا
Tumor histology grade (WHO): high grade
Depth of invasion: through muscularis propria into perivesical fat (A11, A26)
Focality of tumor: unifocal
Angiolymphatic invasion: lymphatic invasion present (eg. A10)
Intraepithelial abnormality: not identified
Ureters: not involved, but uretero-vesicular junctions involved bilaterally
Surgical margins:
Ureter, left: negative
Ureter, right: negative
Urethra: positive for prostatic adenocarcinoma (A1, 2 mm diameter) negative for urothelial carcinoma
Paravesicular soft tissue: negative, but close (1 mm to serosal surface (A12)
Other significant findings: prostate adenocarcinoma, see below
Lymph nodes: separately submitted, see specimens B and C
Diagnoses of other organs: see below
AJCC stage (bladder): pT3a pN2 pMx
Prostate primary:
Tumor histologic type: adenocarcinoma
Grade: Gleason score 3+3
Location: unilateral right, estimated more than d of the right lobe involved
Vascular invasion: not identified
Extracapsular extension: not identified
Surgical margins: right distal urethral margin involved (A1)
AJCC stage: pT2b pN0 pMx
B: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection
UUID:2216705A-2F61-47ED-9E0B-619AE7515C0B
TCGA-CU-A0YO-01A-PR
Redacted
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma (7/10), largest metastasis 1.4 cm diameter, without extracapsular
extension.
No metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma identified.
C: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection
Criteria
Yes
No
NO
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prier Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Casc
Reveeritia
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
10/10/10
-
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/3), 2 mm diameter, without extracapsular extension.
No metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma identified.
Clinical History:
Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.
Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Type of specimen(s) received: cystectomy
Size of urinary bladder: 13.8 x 11.2 x 4.5 cm overall; The bladder is approximately 8.7 x 0.2 x 4.5 cm.
Orientation: Inking: right prostate-blue, left prostate=black, apex=yellow, posterior peritoneal surface
overlying bladder=green.
Tumor size: 4.5 x 1.9 cm
Tumor location: The tumor encompasses the majority of the bladder. The superior/posterior peritoneal
surface is firm and lobulated (inked green).
Other mucosal lesions: The trigone is diffusely erythematous.
Gross description of other organs or structures: A 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.5 cm questionable prostate, The gross
appearance is not consistent with prostate. However, the requisition is labeled "bladder and prostate." No
seminal vesicles or vasa differentia are grossly identified.
Digital photograph taken: no
Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes; Tumor was submitted for Tissue Procurement
Block Summary: (Inking: right prostate=blue, left prostate=black, apex=yellow,
superior/posterior peritoneal surface of the bladder=green)
A1 right distal urethral margin
-
A2 left distal urethral margin
A3 right ureter margin
A4 - left ureter margin
A5 right ureter margin, next cross section
•
A6 left ureter margin, next cross section
A7 - right ureterovesicular junction
A8 - left ureterovesicular junction
A9 - tan mass with respect to green inked peritoneum
A10 mass, posterior/dome
A11-A14 uninvolved trigone
A15 uninvolved right lateral wall
A16 uninvolved left lateral wall
A17,A18 - perpendicular sections of presumed prostate (just inferior to the trigone to the surface of the
psecimen0
-
A19 perpendicular section of the presumed right side of the prostate
A20 perpendicular section of the presumed left side of the prostate
A21-A24 remainder of right lobe of prostate
A25-A30 remainder of left lobe of prostate
Container B is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes." It holds a 5.5 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm fragment of yellow
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for lymph nodes. Lymph node candidates are grossly identified
ranging from 0.4 cm to 4.1 cm in greatest dimension. Sections are submitted as follows:
Block summary:
B1,B2 largest lymph node, bisected
B3-B4 one lymph node candidate, bisected
B5 one lymph node candidate, bisected
B6 four lymph node candidates
Container C is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes." It holds a 6 × 2 × 1.2 cm fragment of yellow
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for lymph nodes. Four lymph node candidates are gross
identified ranging from 0.5 cm to 4 cm in greatest dimension. Sections are submitted as follows:
C1,C2 - largest lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C3 two lymph node candidates
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed
Urothelial carcinoma extends into perivesicle fat in A11, A12, and A26.
Prostatic adenocarcinoma is identified in the R lobe in blocks A1, A19, A22, and A23. called with the
unexpected prostatic ACa data
Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).
