UUID:1CF3FA64-EAE6-4A18-9851-F5980A885371
TCGA-AC-A2FK-01A-PR
Redacted
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchroncus Primary Hoted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
MAT/26/10/11
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
6/3/11
Patient Name:
Med. Rec. #:
DOB:
Gender:
Physician(s):
Specimen(s) Received
A: Right breast tissue
B: Sentinel node #1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Location:
Service:
Billing #:
Accession #:
Billing Type:
Taken:
Received:
Reported:
C: Sentinel node #2
D: Left breast tissue
E: Sentinel node #3
Pathologic Diagnosis
A. Right breast tissue, mastectomy: Benign breast tissue with multiple intraductal papillomas and
proliferative fibrocystic change.
B. Sentinel node #1: One lymph node positive for metastatio lobular
ar 
carcinoma. The deposit measures
1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Superficial extranodal extension is present.
C. Sentinel node #2: One lymph node positive metastatic lobular carcinoma. The deposit measures 1.3
cm. Superficial extranodal extension is present.
D. Left breast tissue:
Histologic Type:
Modified B-R Grade:
Invasive lobular carcinoma
2
Tumor Size:
Tubular score: 3
Nuclear score: 2
Mitosis score: 1
Greatest dimension: 3.4 cm
Additional dimensions: 3 X
1.2 cm
Margins of Invasive Carcinoma: Negative
Invasive carcinoma is located: 1.8 cm
away from the deep margin
ICB-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating
Tobular, Nos 8520/3
Site, breast, Nos C50.9
for 6/10/11
Lymphovascular Invasion:
Absent
Duotal Carcinoma In Situ:
Absent
Paget's Disease:
Absent
Distant Metastasis:
Cannot be assessed
Specimen Type:
Mastectomy
Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Site:
Lymph Node Sampling:
Left
Upper outer quadrant
Sentinel lymph nodes only
Surgical Pathology Report - Page 1/3
ChartMax Final Reports
--1'
Page 1 of 3
Surgical Pathology Report
Comment: Small intraductal papillomas present. Hormone receptors were performed on previous
specimen
E. Sentinel node #3: One lymph node positive for metastatic lobular carcinoma. The deposit measures
1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Superficial extranodal extension is present.
PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT2, pNX, pMX
All three nodes sampled are positive and, therefore, the nodal stage is at least pN1a.
NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure is transmitted to this Institution's Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it. The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon's operative
report.
Clinical History
Breast carcinoma.
Gross Description
"A" - The specimen is received in formalin labeled "right breast". It consists of an unoriented mastectomy
specimen without axillary tissue measuring 18 x 17.5 x 4 cm and weighing 719 grams. There is an
overlying tan-white ellipse of skin measuring 12.2 x 9 cm showing a slightly eccentric, wrinkled pale tan
areola, measuring 4.6 x 4.5 cm. In the center of the areola, there is an everted pale tan soft nipple
measuring 1 x1x0.5 cm. There are grossly no biopsy sites or healed incisions on the skin surface. The
deep margin is inked black and the specimen is serially sectioned to reveal lobulated fat interspersed with
a moderate amount soft-to-firm pink-tan nonfatty breast tissue. There are scattered pink-tan soft
circumscribed nodules measuring up to 0.4 cm in diameter. Also noted are cysts filled with brown fluid
measuring up to 0.3 cm in diameter. There is grossly no evidence of malignity. Representative sections
are submitted in seven cassettes. Block summary: "A1" - vertical section of nipple; “A2" - cross section of
nipple; "A3" -tissue underlying the nipple; "A4 -"A7" - tissue and nodules from each quadrant with the cyst
Included in cassette "4". The specimen is reviewed with
"B" - The specimen is received in formalin labeled "sentinel node #1". It consists of a firm pink-tan lymph
node and attached fat measuring overall 1.5 x 1 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is bisected and totally submitted
in cassette "B".
"C" - The specimen is received in formalin labeled "sentinel node #2". It consists of a pink-tan lymph node
with attached fat measuring overall 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected and totally submitted in
cassette "C".
"D" - The specimen is received in formalin labeled "left breast". It consists of an unoriented mastectomy
specimen without axillary tissue measuring 20 x 17 x 4 cm and weighing 744 grams. There is an overlying
tan-white ellipse of skin measuring 11.5 x 8 cm showing a slightly eccentric, wrinkled pale tan areola,
measuring 4.5 x 4.5 cm. In the center of the areola, there is an everted pale tan soft nipple measuring 1 x
1 x 0.5 cm. There are grossly no biopsy sites or healed incisions on the skin surface. However, a papule
is identified 0.3 cm from the nearest margin of the skin ellipse, measuring 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The deep margin
is inked black and the specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a firm pale pink-tan mass which appears to
Page 2 of 3
Surgical Pathology Report - Page 2/3″
Surgical Pathology Report
be within the upper outer quadrant measuring 3.4 x 3 x 1.2 cm. The mass comes to within 1.8 cm of the
deep margin and 1 cm of the nearest superficial margin (inked blue). The mass comes to within 3.2 cm of
the nipple. The deep margin is inked black and the specimen is serially sectioned to reveal lobulated fat
interspersed with a moderate amount soft-to-firm pink-tan nonfatty breast tissue. The tumor shows
adjacent linear and focal areas of induration extending predominantly lateral and medial. No lymph nodes
are grossly identified at the axillary margin. Representative sections are submitted in 12 cassettes. Block
summary: "D1" - vertical section of nipple; “D2" - cross section of nipple; "D3" - tumor and nearest
superficial margin; "D4" - tumor and nearest deep margin; "D5" - tumor away from the surgical margin; "D6"
and "D7" - irregular firm tissue approximately 1.5 cm medial to the tumor within the upper inner quadrant,
"D8" and "D9" - Irregularly firm tissue within the upper outer quadrant lateral to the tumor, "D10" - lower
Inner quadrant; "D11" - lower outer quadrant; "D12" - tissue underlying the nipple. The specimen is
reviewed with '
"E" - The specimen is received in formalin labeled "sentinel node #3". It consists of a tan-yellow portion of
fatty tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm. Sectioning reveals a pink-tan lymph node measuring 1.7 x 0.6 x
0.4 cm. the lymph node is totally submitted in cassette "E".
Microscopic Description
Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The pathologic diagnosis encompasses the
essential microscopic findings of this case.
Surgical Pathology Report - Page 3/3
ChartMax Final Reports
Page 3 of 3
ge 11
