Case#:
Sample#
UUID:F20CA786-3109-4A49-9355-5DCEDIAD7136
TCGA-FD-A3SP-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race:
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
ICD-0-3
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Thirty four lymph nodes, no tumor (0/34).
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Fourteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/14).
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
QUALIFIED
Qual/Svn: hronous Primary Noted
Case is cle):
leviewelin L
Date Peviewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
t 1/2/112
Please see TCGA Pathologic Dingwests
Discrepancy Form
Carcinoma, and thelial, NOS
Site:
812013
path: blacker, NOS
6679
CQCF: bladder, wall, posterior
C. Urinary bladder, prostate and vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with focal sarcomatoid
dedifferentiation, see pathologic parameters.
4-9-12
- Multifocal urothelial carcinoma in situ involving bladder dome and left
lateral wall.
- Right ureteral margin with urothelial carcinoma in situ.
- Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.
D. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma with focal spindle cell
sarcomatoid dedifferentiation (10%).
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Multifocal, invasive carcinoma at right lateral
wall/dome/posterior wall and urothelial carcinoma in situ at dome, left lateral
wall and right ureter.
5. Ureteral margins: Right ureter margin with urothelial carcinoma in situ; no
invasive carcinoma seen.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/48).
9. pTNM: pT3b,N0, MX.
ко
C674
کلام
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[], MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow [] M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [], MD
Clinical History:
The patient is a
year-old male with clinical history of malignant neoplasm of
bladder, heart unspecified, undergoing radical cystectomy with medial bladder.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Prostate, vas deferens
D: Left distal ureter stitch non margin side
Gross Description:
4 The specimens are received in four containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "1. Right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6 x 4 x 1.5 cm yellow/brown
lobular aggregate of adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple lymph node
candidates ranging from 0.2-2.7 cm. Sectioned candidate lymph node reveals
normal appearing cut surface. All candidate lymph nodes are submitted as
follows:
A1 to A3: 5 candidate lymph nodes in each cassette
A4: 4 candidate lymph nodes
A5: 5 candidate lymph nodes
A6 to A8: 4 candidate lymph nodes in each cassette
A9: 2 candidate lymph nodes
A10: 2 candidate lymph nodes
All: One candidate lymph node bisected
A12: Section of remaining adipose tissue
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "2. Left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6 x 3 x 0.5 cm yellow/brown
lobular aggregate of adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple lymph node
candidates ranging from 0.2-4.5 cm. The largest candidate lymph node is
sectioned to reveal normal appearing cut surface. All candidate lymph nodes are
submitted as follows:
B1 to B2: 3 candidate lymph nodes in each cassette
B3: 5 candidate lymph nodes
B4: 2 candidate lymph nodes
B5-B6: One candidate lymph node, section
B7: Section the remaining adipose tissue
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "3. Prostate, vas
deferens".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 375 g (post formalin fixation), 17 x
11.5 x 4.5 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 6 x 5 x 4 cm bladder
(post formalin fixation) with attached mesenteric fat and a 4.6 x 3.7 x 3.5 cm
prostate. The right seminal vesicle measure 3 x 1.8 x 0.7 cm and right vas
deferens measures 5.5 x 0.5 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 3.5 x 1.1 x
0.4 cm and left vas deferens measures 4.5 x 0.5 cm. The right ureteral stump
measures 0.5 cm long x 0.4 cm diameter, the left measures 0.6 cm long x 0.4 cm
diameter, and both demonstrate intact, patent lumenina.
The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra in
a Y-shaped incision. The prostate is surrounded by a thin, intact membranous
capsule and sectioning demonstrates rubbery, yellow-tan parenchyma with no
discrete masses or indurations. Sectioning of the seminal vesicles and vasa
deferentia reveal no gross lesion but there fairly extensive adhesion of the
left seminal vesicle and vas deferens to the prostate.
The opened bladder reveals a 3.3 x 2.7 cm yellow flat ulcerated lesion located
in right lateral wall extending to the dome and posterior wall associated with
extensive fibrosis on cut section. Grossly, the mass extends through the
muscularis propria and into the perivesicular fat but not to the inked margin
(approximately 0.5 cm from ink). The surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled,
pink-tan with a uniform 0.2 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral orifices,
adjacent to the trigone, are identified and probe patent.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Distal prostatic urethral margin (apex)
C2: Right ureter resection margin
C3: Left ureter resection margin
C4: Prostate apex
C5-C16: Entire ulceration, from inferior to superior
C17: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
C18: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
C19: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall
C20: Uninvolved bladder mucosa left lateral wall
C21-C23: Representative right lobe of prostate from apex to base
C24-C26: Representative left lobe of prostate submitted from apex to base
C27: Uninvolved bladder mucosa trigone
C28: Left seminal vesicle and vas deferens
C29: Right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "4. Left distal
ureter-stitch non margin side ".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 1.5 cm segment of ureter with a
maximal diameter 0.4 cm (stitch side) and a patent lumen measuring 0.2 cm
(stitch side). The non-stitch end of the ureter is sectioned and submitted en
face in cassette D1.
XX
[], M.D.
Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form
V4.00
Instructions: The
Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.
Tissue Source Site (TSS):
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinica): _
Diagnosis Information
#
1
Data Element
Pathologic Diagnosis
Provided on Initial
Pathology Report
Histologic features of
the sample provided
as reflected
2
for
on the CQCF.
_TSS Identifier:
Entry Alternatives
is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
TSS Unique Patient Identifier: _
Completed Date:
Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on
Invasive high grade urothelial the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
carcinoma with focal sarcomatoid diffentiation
Invasive urothelial
Carcinoma
(no sarcomatoid differentiation
Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
3
Provide the reason for
the discrepancy
between the pathology
report and the
Case Quality Control
Form.
this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Provide the histologic features selected on the'
Quality Control Form completed for this case.
Case
Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
Case Quality Control Form.
The sampling of the tissue diagnosis selected on the
used for diagnosis was
different from the tissue
reviewed & sent for submission
4
Name of TSS Reviewing
Pathologist or
Biorepository Director
to'
Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
for
I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.
TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director
Date
I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.
Principal Investigator Signature
Date
