Case Number:
Collection Date:
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelin Nos 8120/3
Site: bladder, NOS
C679
2/18/11
Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
A: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional node dissection
-
- No tumor seen in six lymph nodes (0/6).
B: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional node dissection
- Metastatic high grade urothelial carcinoma, involving 4 of 5 lymph nodes, size of largest lymph node
metastasis 1.4 cm, no definite extranodal extension of tumor identified, tumor is present in afferent
lymphatics in several lymph nodes.
Immunohistochemistry confirms that the tumor in the lymph nodes is urothelial carcinoma. It is CK7 and
p63 positive, PSA and PAP negative. Blocks B2 and B 3 were stained.
C: Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy
Bladder
Tumor histologic type: invasive urothelial carcinoma. Immunohistochemistry confirms that the tumor in the
bladder is urothelial carcinoma. It is CK7 and p63 positive, PSA and PAP negative.
Tumor histology grade (WHO classification): high grade
Microscopic tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.2 cm
Microscopic extent of invasion: into muscularis propria
Focality of tumor: unifocal, tumor is present in the anterior wall of the bladder
Angiolymphatic space invasion: present, extensive
Presence/absence of intraepithelial abnormality: A minimal amount of urothelial carcinoma in situ is present
in urothelium immediately adjacent to invasive carcinoma. Sections of the bladder away from the main tumor
mass are free of intraepithelial abnormalities.
Ureters: no tumor or carcinoma in situ identified, bilaterally
Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Ureter, left: free of tumor
UUID:F46FA517-9F64-46C0-AE22-36F1453D3266
TCGA-CU-AØYR-01A-PR
Ureter, right: free of tumor
Redacted
Urethra: free of tumor
Paravesicular soft tissue: free of tumor
Other significant findings: A focal area of papillary cystitis is present in the dome of the bladder (the
suspicious lesion seen grossly is the dome of the bladder shows only papillary cystitis with no neoplasia
identified).
Lymph nodes: see specimens A and B, above. Total node count is metastatic urothelial carcinoma in 4 of 11
lymph nodes
AJCC staging (bladder):
PT2
pN2
Prostate:
Tumor histologic type: prostate adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemistry confirms that the tumor in the
prostate is prostate cancer. It is PSA and PAP positive, CK7 and p63 negative.
Tumor grade (Gleason system): 8 (4+4)
Criteria
Dia nosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is circle):
QUALIFIED
Reviewi
Yes
Nc
DISQUALIFIED
newed.
4/24/11
سلام
1
7
Approximate percentage of prostate involved by tumor: 10%, greatest tumor dimension approximately 3 cm
Extent of tumor:
Location of tumor involvement in prostate: Right and left posterior lobes, from mid to base
Confinement/non-confinement of tumor within the prostatic capsule: Tumor not confined to prostate capsule
Location of extracapsular tumor involvement: Right and left seminal vesicle
Type of extracapsular tissue involved within tumor: seminal vesicle
Angiolymphatic space invasion: Not identified
Seminal vesicles: Muscle wall of both right and left seminal vesicles involved with prostate adenocarcinoma.
Adventitial tissue around seminal vesicles involved with prostate adenocarcinoma. The tumor in the seminal
vesicles is confirmed to be prostate cancer. It is PSA and PAP positive, CK7 and p63 negative.
Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Surgical margins free of tumor
Other significant findings: Benign prostatic hyperplasia
Lymph nodes: See specimens A and B above. There is no evidence of metastatic prostate cancer in any
lymph node. The tumor in the nodes stains as urothelial carcinoma, and is PSA and PAP negative.
AJCC Staging (prostate):
pT3b
PNO
This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive
review of all 
available information is recommended to determine final staging.
Clinical History:
a clinical diagnosis of bladder CA, undergoes cystoprostatectomy.
Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.
Container A is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and is a 5 x 4 x 2 cm aggregate of multiple
fragments of 
yellow/brown firm lobulated fibroadipose tissue. The fragments are palpated for lymph node
candidates. Multiple lymph node candidates from approximately 5 x 4 x 3 mm to 2.5 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm
(disrupted) are identified.
Block Summary:
A1 Two lymph node candidates
A2 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned
A3 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned
A4 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned (suspicious)
A5-A7 - Largest disrupted lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
Some fibrofatty tissue is retained in formalin.
Container B is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and is a 6 x 4 x 3 cm aggregate of multiple
fragments 
of focally roughened brown/yellow fibrofatty tissue. Many of the fragments are disrupted. Many of
the lymph node 
candidates are very firm. A portion of one of the mid sized (2.4 cm in greatest dimension)
firm lymph node 
candidates was given to tissue procurement.
Five lymph node candidates from approximately 6 × 6 × 7 mm to approximately 4.8 x 1.6 × 1.0 cm are
identified. The 
second largest lymph node is received markedly disrupted but it is treated as a single lymph
node. The largest 
lymph node candidate is likely fatty replaced.
Block Summary:
B1 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned
B2 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned (suspicious)
B3 Two sections from firm suspicious lymph node (portion given to tissue procurement)
B4 Two sections from large firm disrupted lymph node candidate
B5-B9 - Largest lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
Some fibrofatty tissue as well as remaining suspicious lymph nodes are retained in formalin.
Specimen 
C:
Specimen fixation: Formalin
Type of specimen(s) received. Unspecified cystoprostatectomy
Size of urinary bladder: The entire specimen is 18 x 9.5 x 3 cm; the bladder is approximately 8 x 8 x 3 cm
and the 
attached prostate is approximately 6 x 6 x 5 cm.
Orientation: None provided. Inking: Anterior/blue, posterior/black, and urethral margin/yellow.
Tumor size: 3.2 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm; 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm.
Tumor location: There are two suspicious areas identified. The largest lesion is located on the anterior wall
and the 
smaller lesion is located at the dome. The two lesions are 2 cm from one another. The anterior wall
lesion is firm, red/white with some gray/yellow discoloration. The lesion at the dome is pink/tan and papillary
appearing.
Other mucosal lesions: The posterior wall is erythematous, as is the trigone. The bladder was received with
a Foley in 
place
.
Gross description of other organs or structures: The right seminal vesicle is approximately 1.8 x 1.8 x 1.2
cm, the left 
seminal vesicle is approximately 1.7 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The right seminal vesicle upon cross
sectioning 
has a firmer whiter cut surface than the left. Sectioning the prostate exhibits tan spongy prostatic
parenchyma in the 
posterior lobe. The anterior lobe (and much of the prostate) is distorted by marked
periurethral nodularity. In the right posterior lobe, there are two separate well-circumscribed white nodules
from 
6 x 3 x 3 mm to approximately 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm.
Digital photograph taken: No
Tissue submitted for special investigation: Tumor from anterior wall lesion and normal bladder was given to
tissue procurement
.
Block Summary:
C1
Urethral margin, en face
C2 Right ureteral margin, en face
-
C3 - Left ureteral margin, en face
C4 - Anterior wall lesion with blue inked anterior margin
C5 Representative anterior wall lesion
-
C6-C7 Full thickness anterior wall lesion, slice bisected, C7 has unlinked peritoneum
C8 - Normal bladder between anterior and dome lesion
C9-C13 - Dome lesion, serially sectioned and entirely submitted
C14 Normal posterior wall
C15 Right ureteral orifice
C16 - Left ureteral orifice (internal)
C17 Additional left lateral wall
C18 - Trigone
C19 Right seminal vesicle
-
C20 Left seminal vesicle
-
C21 Representative right approximately mid prostate
C22 Representative approximately mid left prostate
C23 - Smaller right posterior lobe well circumscribed right nodule
C24-C27-Larger right posterior lobe nodule, serially sectioned and entirely submitted
-
C28 Contiguous section of right and left seminal vesicles (left has a small 2 mm in greatest dimension
white nodule)
C29 Anterior lobe of prostate, towards base, trigone of bladder present
C30-C48 Additional posterior lobe of prostate from mid prostate towards base
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed
Appropriate internal and/or external positive and negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the
immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents (ASR).
These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the
These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-
88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testings.
Signature
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).
