Results
Patient Information
Patient Name
Result Information
Status
Final result
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Pathology
MRN
UUID:295B55E8-4220-4342-96E3-C4A8065B3D58
TCGA-GU-A766-01A-PR
Redacted
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Provider Status
Reviewed
Sex
DOB
Lab
Patient Name:
Med Rec #
Accession #:
FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph node, dissection:
"
One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)
B. Right distal ureter, resection:
- Fragment of ureter
- No dysplasia or carcinoma identified
- Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
C. Left distal ureter margin, resection
-
· Fragment of ureter
No dysplasia or carcinoma identified
- Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
D. Prostate, bladder, cystoprostatectomy:
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial MOS
Site Bladder NOS
8/2013
$67.9
Feladder meek 1675
7105/13/13
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma infiltrating into muscularis propria
(3.7 cm)
- pT2a, NOMX (see attached CAP template)
- Seven lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/7)
-
Acute and chronic cystitis giant cell reaction consistent with previous
resection site
E. Left obturator lymph nodes, dissection:
- Five lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/5)
-
F. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
Two lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/2)
G. Right pelvic lymph node #2, dissection:
-
- One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)
- Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
H. Right obturator lymph node, dissection:
- Three lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/3)
Criteria
w 8/5/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
rimary tumor Site:
for Site 
Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
or Malignancy History
Ocal/Synchronous Primary Noted
Cave is circle):
devower Initials
QUALIFIED
No
DISQUALIFIED
8/5/13
Page 1 of 6
Specimen: Bladder
Other (specify): prostate and pelvic lymph nodes
Procedure: Radical cystectomy
Tumor Site: Bladder neck and prostatic urethra
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.7 cm
Additional dimensions: 3.0 x 0.8 cm
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Histologic Grade: High-grade
Tumor Configuration:
Flat
Ulcerated
Microscopic Tumor Extension: None identified
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT):
propria (inner half)
pT2a: Tumor invades superficial muscularis
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO:
No lymph node metastasis
Specify number examined: 19
Number involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Cystitis cystica glandularis
Inflammation, degenerative changes
Ancillary Studies: Block D6 and D7 can be used for additional studies if
needed.
The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
edition.
***Electronically Signed Out By
CLINICAL HISTORY
Bladder Cancer
Cystectomy and ureteroileal conduit
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Right distal ureter
C: Left distal ureteral margin
D: Urancus, prostate, bladder
Page 2 of 6
E: Left obturator lymph nodes
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes
G: Right pelvic lymph node #2
H: Right obturtor lymph nodes
GROSS DESCRIPTION
Specimen A is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right
pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. A single lymph node is identified measuring 0.8
cm in greatest dimension.
Section key:
A1 one lymph node bisected
A2 additional adipose tissue submitted for possible microscopic lymph node
Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and "right distal ureter" and consists of a segment of ureter measuring 0.8 cm
in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is completely submitted for frozen
section as B1.
Specimen C is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and "left distal ureter" and consists of a segment of ureter measuring 0.3 cm in
length x 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is completely submitted for frozen
section as C1.
Specimen D:
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureter stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Fixative: Received fresh, tissue is taken for research and later submitted in
formalin
Dimensions: Bladder SI 6.0 cm, right to left 5.5 cm, anterior to posterior 3.5
cm, right ureter stumps 4.5 x 0.4 cm, left ureter stumps 4.0 x 0.4 cm, prostate
base 2.0 cm, apex 4.5 cm, left to right 4.2 cm, anterior to posterior 3.3 cm
Description of findings:
Tumor: The mass is dark dusky red to gray-tan and is located in the bladder
neck. It extends radially to involve both ureter orifices. The mass measures
approximately 3.7 x 3.0 cm. Sectioning involves possible invasion into the
wall, however, no invasion through the wall is identified. The surrounding
mucosa including the posterior wall is dusk, red and edematous. The mucosa at
the dome is flattened and thin. Sectioning through the surrounding adipose
tissue reveals an elongated, fibrous area possibly representing urachus
measuring 7.5 cm in length x 0.7 cm in diameter. Multiple lymph nodes are also
identified ranging from 0.6 up to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The majority of
the lymph nodes are grossly positive.
Uninvolved mucosa: (polyps, ulceration, erythema)
Prostate: The prostate urethra is dark, red-gray and roughened with possible
involvement by the mass within the bladder. The prostate parenchyma is firm,
pale tan to white with a vaguely nodular appearance.
Ink code: Posterior bladder=black, anterior bladder=green, right
prostate-orange, left prostate=blue, anterior prostate=green, posterior
prostate=black
Section key:
D1 urethral margin
D2 and D3 one complete cross section extending from bladder neck to prostate
apex split
D4 longitudinal cross section of right ureter extending to bladder mucosa
D5 longitudinal cross section of left ureter extending to bladder mucosa
D6-D9 representative sections of mass
Page 3 of 6
D10 section from posterior wall with edema
D11 uninvolved anterior wall
D12 dome
D13 possible urachus
D14 apex right prostate
D15-D17 random sections proceeding from apex to base right prostate
D18 apex left prostate
D19-D21 random sections from apex to base left prostate
D22 distal sections of vas deferens with right vas deferens marked with ink
D23 representative section of largest grossly positive lymph node
D24 one lymph node trisected
D25 two matted lymph nodes bisected
D26 one lymph node bisected
D27 one lymph node bisected
D28 two single lymph nodes
Specimen E is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left
obturator lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 6.0 x 3.8 x 2.5 cm. Four lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.3
up to 4.0 cm in greatest dimension.
Section key:
E1-E4 largest lymph node sectioned
Specimen F is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left
pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 4.5 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm. Two lymph nodes are identified measuring 2.0 cm
and 2.7 cm in greatest dimension.
Section key:
F1 and F2 larger lymph node bisected
F3 smaller lymph node bisected
Specimen G is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and "right pelvic lymph nodes #2"
and consists of an irregular fragment of pale tan and yellow fibrofatty soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is completely submitted for
frozen section as G1.
Specimen H is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right
obturator lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 5.2 x 3.5 x 2.6 cm. Two lymph nodes are identified measuring 3.5 cm
and 2.0 cm. The smaller lymph node is fragmented. The lymph nodes are
completely submitted.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
The stain quality is acceptable.
The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
Time in:
Time out:
B1-FS, Right distal ureter: "Negative for carcinoma"
Time in:
Time out:
C1-FS, Left distal ureteral margin: "Negative for carcinoma"
Time in:
Time out:
G1-FS, Right pelvic lymph node #2: "Negative for metastatic carcinoma"
Page 4 of 6
