Surgical Pathology Final Report
Temporary. Copy
Case
Chilledred
UUID:77A23BED-7817-4854-A6E3-D6E8ECD460F8
TCGA-GC-A3RC-01A-PR
apred
Final Diagnosis
Redacted
Left ureter with FS:
Ureter with chronic inflammation; negative for dysplasia.
Right ureter with FS:
Ureter with chronic inflammation; negative evidence of dysplasia.
Appendix:
Anatomically normal appendix.
Bladder, total cystectomy:
-
- Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
- Tumor has high-grade histology.
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial, Nos
812013
Site: bladder, wall, Nos
- Maximum tumor size: 5.7 cm in greatest dimension.
- Associated epithelial lesion (none identified).
Microscopic tumor extension to the ureteral orifice (bilateral).
- Prostatic exam reveals no evidence of prostatic invasion.
067.9
3.30-12 RD
- Seminal vesicles are unremarkable with no evidence of invasion.
- Lymphovascular invasion is identified.
- Margins:
- Tumor invades to 0.3 cm of the anterior margin.
- All inked margins of resection appear free of tumor.
- Right pelvic lymph nodes:
Two (2) lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor.
Left pelvic lymph nodes:
Seven (7) lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor.
AJCC pathologic stage: pT2b,NO,MX.
Clinical Information
Bladder mass.
Frozen Section Diagnosis
FSA Left ureter - lumen with urothelium negative for dysplasia.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy history
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Review Ins
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
KMT 3/3/123/21
3/2/12
Surgical Pathology, Final Report
Temporary Copy
Gases
Collected
Order 3p-by
FSB Right ureter: Lumen with urothelium negative for dysplasia.
(Focal ch. inf. with giant cells in periureteral fat).
Gross Description
"A, FSA, Left ureter." Received is frozen section control tissue. "FSA," all.
"B, NFSB." Received after frozen section is a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm yellow-tan to gray-tan tissue fragment. A portion of the
specimen has been submitted for frozen section in cassette "FSB." "B," alf.
"C, Appendix." Received is a 4.2 x 0.5 cm appendix with attached periappendiceal fat. The proximal margin will be inked black,
shaved and submitted. No masses or lesions are grossly identified on the serosa. No masses or lesions are grossly identified
in the appendix. "C," representative.
"D, Bladder." Received is a bladder with attached prostate gland and bilateral vasa deferentia and seminal vesicles, which has
an overall measurement of 12.6 × 7.2 x 4.7 cm. The prostate gland and bladder have been previously opened on their anterior
aspect. The prostatic apex will be inked yellow, shaved and submitted. The remainder of the prostate gland will be inked
orange. There is a 5.7 x 4.4 cm firm, friable mass on the mucosa of the anterior aspect of the bladder. The mass grossly
appears to come to within 4.7 cm of the prostatic apex. The mass invades the wall of the bladder and grossly appears to come
to within 0.3 cm of the overlying perivesicular tissue, which has been previously inked black. The mass involves the mucosa in
the region of both the left and right ureteral orifices but does not grossly appear to involve the lumen of either orifice. The
remaining bladder mucosa is edematous. No masses or lesions are grossly identified in the prostate gland.
Free in the container is a smaller container labeled "fixed specimen", which has a 2.1 x 1.5 cm yellow-tan soft tissue fragment
and a 3.5 x 0.3 cm linear tissue fragment. The linear tissue fragment will be bisected and of these tissue fragments will be
submitted in toto. "D1," apex; "D2-D4," mass; "D5," left ureteral orifice with mass; "D6," right ureteral orifice with mass; "D7,"
trigone; "D8," posterior bladder wall; "D9," dome of bladder; "D10," left vas deferens and seminal vesicle; "D11," right vas
deferens and seminal vesicle; "D12-D19," prostate gland sublabeled "D12-D13," left posterior quadrant; "D14-D15," right
posterior quadrant; "D16-D17," left anterior quadrant; "D18-D19," right anterior quadrant; "D10," tissue in smaller container
labeled "fixed specimen". See attached drawing.
"E, Right pelvic lymph nodes." Received is a 6.2 x 3.8 x 2.1 cm aggregate of yellow-tan, lobulated tissue. On sectioning, there
are 11 possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 to 4.2 cm in greatest dimension. All lymph nodes will be sampled. "E1-E3,"
representative.
"F, Left pelvic lymph nodes." Received is a 7.2 x 4.1 x 1.8 cm aggregate of yellow-tan, lobulated tissue fragments. On
sectioning, there are 7 possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.8 to 2.7 cm. All lymph nodes will be sampled. "F1-F2,"
representative.
Also received in ~
container labeled
* and 1 green cassette labeled
The container has 2 cassettes, 1 yellow cassette that is labeled
Performing Lab
Testing performed at
Surg Path Final Report
*
Final Report *
Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:
Surg Path Final Report
Auth (Verified)
Surgical Pathology Final Report
Final Diagnosis (Verified)
* Final Report'
*
Urinary bladder tumor, curettings:
Urothelial carcinoma, high-grade, with invasion of muscularis propria.
Signature Line
Clinical Information (Verified)
Bladder tumor.
Performing Lab (Verified)
Testing performed at
Gross Description (Verified)
"A, Bladder tumor." The specimen consists of a 13 gram aggregate, 4 x 3.8 x 1.2 cm aggregate of soft, friable, red-gray tissue. "A1-A5,"
fragments
, all.
Signature Line
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 1 of 2
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
*
Final Report *
Completed Action list.
* Order by
* Order by
* VERIFY by .
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 2 of 2
(End of Report)
