[
Referring Physician:
UUID:9F7E2B98-29E7-465F-AE12-33D78FDFD71A
TCGA-AC-A30D-01A-PR
Redacted
DOB:
Ref#:
Age:
Gender: F
Hosp#:
Provider Group :
Date of Service:
Date Received:
Outpatient
Room:
Case #
Bed
Date Reported:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis:
A. BREAST, RIGHT, PROPHYLACTIC MASTECTOMY:
- Atypical ductal hyperplasia, usual ductal hyperplasia, radial scar,
apocrine metaplasia and columnar cell change.
- No carcinoma identified.
B. - E.) BREAST, AXILLARY LYMPH NODES, LEFT, MASTECTOMY AND SENTINEL LYMPH
NODE BIOPSIES:
-
Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 1.
- Tumor size: 50 mm.
- Surgical margins negative.
- One of three lymph nodes POSITIVE for micrometastasis (1/3).
- No extracapsular extension identified.
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (LEFT BREAST):
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 1.
Primary tumor: pT2.
Regional lymph node: pN1mi (one lymph node with micrometastasis, 1/3).
Distant metastasis: N/A.
Pathologic stage: IIB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: RO, negative, all margins 10 mm or greater.
COMMENT: A micrometastasis (measuring 1.95 mm in greatest dimension) is seen in
sentinel lymph node
node
. Additionally, isolated tumor cells are seen in sentinel lymph
Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook. 7th Ed, and CAP protocol,
This staging also incorporates:
Previous biopsy:
Breast profile: '
2/2/12
Case #
Printed:
Phone.
Acct No. -
Patient Nam
Pathology Report Page 1/5
ICD-0-3
Site: breast, NOS
carcinoma, infiltrating lobular, Nos 852013
C50.9
لسلام
Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)
131
_ C# 1
Case #:
Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen laterality
Specimen size (other than mastectomy):
INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:
Invasive tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:
Mitotic count:
Other Grading System:
Lymphatic invasion:
MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closet margin:
Other margins:
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LCIS):
Skin:
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:
LYMPH NODES:
INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (PT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (PM):
Pathologic stage:
Total breast including nipple and skin.
Total mastectomy.
Sentinel lymph node
Single intact specimen.
Left.
N/A.
50 mm.
12:00.
Single large focus of invasive carcinoma.
Invasive lobular carcinoma.
Grade 1 (cumulative score 5 of 9).
Less than 10% (3 of 3).
Low grade (1 of 3). I
Low (1 of 3).
One mitosis per ten high power field.
N/A.
Not identified.
RO, negative.
Deep at 17 mm.
All other margins 20 mm or greater.
Not identified.
Not identified.
Present, not involved.
Present, not involved.
Not identified.
Micrometastasis seen in one of three lymph
nodes, additionally one lymph node with isolated
tumor cells.
PT2.
pN1mi (1/3 lymph nodes with micrometastasis).
N/A.
118.
RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:
Case #
Printed:
Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:
Ki-67 proliferative index:
Phone:
POSITIVE (100% positive cells, strong intensity).
POSITIVE (100% positive cells, strong intensity).
Negative (1+, scale 0-3+).
Intermediate (15% of cells).
Acct No.
Patient Name
Pathology Report
-
Page 2/5
This report continues
Page 2
(FINAL)
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Comment:
Additional pathologic findings:
N/A.
Atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), usual ductal
hyperplasia, apocrine metaplasia, columnar cell
change.
Signed by
Source of Specimen:
A. Right breast
B. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
C. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
D. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
E. Left breast
Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Left breast malignant neoplasm unspecified site
Intraoperative Diagnosis:
B. Touch imprint-B: Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
The intraonerative interpretation(s) was/were performed
C. Touch imprint-C: Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
D. Touch imprint-D: Left axillary sentinel lymph node #
Gross Description:
No tumor cells identified.
and rendered at:
No tumor cells identified
No tumor cells identified
A. The specimen is labeled right breast and is received in formalin. It consists of a mastectomy specimen
which weighs 431 grams. A black suture marks the tail of the breast. With this 
orientation the specimen
Case #:
Printed:
Pho
Page 3
This report continues. (FINAL)
Acct No.
Patient Name
Mathalan Rennst Page 3/5
Case #
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
measures 15.5 cm from medial to lateral, 14.8 cm from superior to inferior, and 4.3 cm from superficial to
deep. There is an overlying 16 x 10 cm skin ellipse with a sharply delineated 3 cm areola and protuberant
1 cm nipple. The skin shows multiple punctate areas of pale red discoloration which 
are 1 mm to 1.5 mm
.
No other skin lesions are identified. The anterior-superior margin is inked blue, the anterior
-inferior margin
is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists of smooth fascial tissue, 
is inked black. The 
breast
is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal lobulated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white 
fibrous to
finely nodular breast parenchyma. There are no areas which have a stellate or retracted 
appearance
suggestive of neoplasm. No lymph nodes are identified within the lateral portion of the breast
.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
A1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple.
A2) representative skin,
A3) representative tissue upper-inner quadrant,
A4) representative tissue lower-inner quadrant,
A5) representative tissue upper-outer quadrant,
A6) representative tissue lower-outer quadrant,
A7) representative central breast and central deep margin.
and is received without fixative. It
B. The specimen is labeled left axillary sentinel lymph node # _
consists of a 12 x 10 x 8 mm lymph node. It is serially sectioned at close intervals and touch imprints are
obtained. The node is submitted for permanent section in cassette B1.
and is received without fixative. It
C. The specimen is labeled left axillary sentinel lymph node #_
consists of a 10 x 8 x 7 mm lymph node. It is serially sectioned at close intervals and touch imprints are
obtained. The specimen is submitted for permanent section in cassette C1.
and is received without fixative, It
D. The specimen is labeled left axillary sentinel lymph node #
consists of a 8 x 8 x 6 mm lymph node. The lymph node is serially sectioned at close intervals and touch
imprints are obtained. The node is submitted for permanent section in cassette D1.
E. The specimen is labeled left breast and is received without fixative. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen weighing 445 grams. A black suture marks the tail of the breast. With this orientation the
specimen measures 19 cm from medial to lateral, 14.5 cm superior to inferior, and 4.2 cm from superficial
to deep. There is an overlying 18 x 10.8 cm ellipse of pink-tan skin with a central inferiorly located 
sharply
circumscribed 3.5 cm areola and 0.9 cm protuberant tan nipple. The skin shows a few tiny punctate areas
of red discoloration which are up to 1.5 mm in maximum dimension. No other skin lesions are present
.
The anterior-superior margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior
margin, which consists of smooth fascial tissue, is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned to reveal a
stellate retracted neoplasm in the central breast underlying the nipple and superior areola. This neoplasm
measures 5 cm from medial to lateral, 2.5 cm from superior to inferior, and 1.8 cm from/superficial to
deep. It is 4.5 cm from the closest superior margin, 4.5 cm from the closest inferior margin, 7 cm from the
closest lateral margin, 6.5 cm from the closest medial margin, and 1.7 cm from the closest deep margin. It
is 2 cm from the closest skin. Representative tissue from the neoplasm is obtained for research purposes.
The remainder of the breast is composed of lobulated fatty tissue with scattered tan-white fibrous
Case #:
Printed:
Pho
Page 4
This report continues. (FINAL)
Pathology Report
-
Acct No. -
Patient Name
Page 4/5
K
- Page 4
Case #
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
parenchyma. There are no other areas grossly suspicious for neoplasm. There are no lymph nodes
identified in the lateral portion of the breast. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
E1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
E2) lateral edge of neoplasm and closest deep margin (biopsy site in this area),
E3-E7) sections of tumor progressing from medial to lateral,
E8) central deep margin underlying tumor,
E9) upper-inner quadrant,
E10) lower-inner quadrant,
E11) upper-outer quadrant,
E12) lower-outer quadrant.
Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Immunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin and shows
positive staining for metastatic carcinoma. The tumor focus measures 1.95 mm in greatest dimension. No
extracapsular extension is identified. The touch preps prepared at the time of frozen section were
reviewed and no definitive tumor cells are identified.
C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Immunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin and shows
positive staining for isolated tumor cells.
D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Immunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin and no
metastatic carcinoma is identified.
E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
Case #
Printed:
Phon
Acct No. -
Patient Name
Pathology Report - Page 5/5
Page 5
END OF REPORT (FINAL)
Page 5
10 2/2/18
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Review In
PH
QUALIFIED
✓ Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
1/31
