UUID:72EA5495-3D5D-4547-B2BE-54C138294216
TCGA-ZF-AA4U-01A-PR
Redacted
Histopathology Histopathology
Specimen Comments
SPECIMEN
1. Bladder and prostate
2. Internal iliac lymph node left
CLINICAL DETAILS
Invasive bladder carcinoma.
MACROSCOPY
COCE
10003
Carcinoma, urothelial Nos 8120/3
path
Carcinoma, transitional cell NOS 8120/3
Site: Bladder NOS C67.9
Je 4/30/14
1. Bladder and prostate measuring 95mm SI, 130mm AP and 130mm ML. The
bladder
contains extensive papillary tumour occupying the entire circumference of the
lower half. On slicing there is probable invasion of the bladder neck and
possibly the prostate. There is no visible involvement of the extravesicle fat.
2. Piece of fibrofatty tissue 23 x 8 x 5mm containing a single 7mm lymph node.
MICROSCOPY
1. Sections of the macroscopically visible exophytic tumour confirm a papillary
and solid poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma, with a better
differentiated exophytic component, and invading the lamina propria and the
muscularis propria to reach the perivesicle fat. There is possible
lymphovascular invasion. There is no lymphocytic infiltrate of the tumour host
interface. No glandular or squamoid differentiation is noted. There is no
neuroendocrine differentiation.
The tumour extends into both lobes of the prostate but involves the lower lobe
on the right side and there is tumour in the periprostatic soft tissue of the
left lower lobe.
Both ureteric margins are morphologically normal except for dilatation of the
lumen on the left side. There is no evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma in situ.
The prostatic urethra also shows no evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma in situ.
The tumour extends to within 5mm of the right circumferential surgical resection
margin and 4mm of the left circumferential surgical resection margin.
Random sections taken from the background bladder show another G2pTa
transitional cell carcinoma and the background shows focal carcinoma in situ.
2. All the tissue was processed and there is no nodal tissue. There is no
evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
SUMMARY (Parts 1 and 2)
Bladder and prostate; The appearances are those of a transitional cell carcinoma
of the bladder (G3) invading the prostate. Surgical resection margins are clear
(G3 pT4a pNx pMx).
Ref:
Pathologists -
Criteria
w 1/9/14
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
I DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 4
