Results
Patient Information
Patient Name
Result Information
Status
Final resul
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Pathology
UUID:3EDC13B8-36AF-4C66-B4A2-38EC382FF39A
TCGA-GU-A762-01A-PR
Redacted
MRN
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Provider Status
Ordered
Sex
Male
DOB
Final Diagnosis
A. Right distal ureter, margin segment, cystoprostatectomy:
-Benign ureter segment
-Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
B. Left distal ureter, margin segment, cystoprostatectomy:
-Benign ureteral segment
-Frozen section diagnosis confirmed
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma, urothelial HOS
81203
Site Bladder NOS $67.9
718/13/13
Per TSS diagnostic discrepancy form,
no squamous differentiation 
seen on
C. Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
-Invasive, high grade urothelial carcinoma with prominent, extensive squamous
differentiation (see note)
-Carcinoma is ulcerated, involves about 80 percent of the bladder wall including
the intravesical right ureter
-Largest tumor nodules is 7.5 x 4.3 x 0.7 cm in the right lateral wall; multiple
other tumor nodules identified in fundus, left lateral wall, anterior wall and
in the prostate (2.5 cm)
-Tumor infiltrates through the muscularis propria, extensively into the
perivesical adipose tissue, into the prostatic stroma (right greater than left)
and right seminal vesicle (blocks C5 and C6)
-Extensive perineural invasion present
-No lymphovascular invasion identified
-Carcinoma is present at the posterior serosal surface (block C26) and at the
right anterior prostatic capsular resection margin (block C31)
-Bilateral ureteral and urethral resection margins are negative for carcinoma
-Benign bladder mucosa with extensive squamous metaplasia, chronic cystitis with
reactive lymphoid follicles; diverticulum in the right fundus with squamous
metaplasia
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
-Three lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma
-Extranodal extension present (3/3)
E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
-One of seven lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma (1/7)
tega specimen.
BCR
CAP CANCER CHECKLIST
Page 1 of 6
Specimen:
Bladder and prostate
Procedure:
Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Site:
Right and left lateral walls, anterior wall, posterior wall, dome of bladder
Tumor Size: *
Approximate dimension: 9.0 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm
✓ Histologic Type:
Urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation
Associated Epithelial Lesions:
None identified
Histologic Grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO/2004 ISUP): High grade
Tumor Configuration:
Solid, interconnected nests with keratinization and acantholytic foci;
ulcerated/necrotic at the mucosal surface
Microscopic Tumor Extension:
Perivesical fat, prostatic stroma, and into the intravesical portions of the
right and left ureters
Margins:
Tumor present at the posterior vesical serosal surface (block C26), right
anterior prostatic capsular resection margin (block C31)
Ureteral and urethral resection margins, uninvolved by carcinoma
Lymphovascular Invasion:
Not identified
Perineural Invasion:
Present, extensive
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (PT):
pT4a: Tumor invades prostatic stroma
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastases in the true pelvis
Number examined: 10
Number involved: 4
Distant Metastasis (PM): pMX: Cannot be assessed
Additional Pathologic Findings:
Tumor associated with prominent inflammatory cell infiltrate including
lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils
Non-neoplastic urothelium including right fundic diverticulum with extensive
squamous metaplasia and chronic cystitis with reactive lymphoid follicles
Ancillary Studies:
None performed at this time; blocks C7 or C33 may be used if required
Page 2 of 6
The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
edition.
Note
The tumor is ulcerated and necrotic at the bladder mucosa and is comprised of
solid, interconnected nests with keratinization and acantholytic foci. There is
extensive squamous differentiation. Tumor in the prostate and in the lymph
nodes is a syncytium of malignant cells associated with prominent mixed chronic
inflammation comprised of lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils, features of
lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma.
Immunohistochemical stains performed with appropriate controls show the
following results within the tumor cells:
CK7 Positive, extensive
CK20 Negative
CK5/6 Positive, extensive
AE1/AE3 Positive, extensive
LCA highlights leucocytes at the edges of the tumor cell nests/syncytium
EBV in-situ hybridization negative
This is a high-grade carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation. While a
high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation is favored,
squamous tumor histomorphology, negative CK20, extensive CK5/6 expression, and
extensive benign squamous metaplasia raise the possibility of a de-novo squamous
cell carcinoma.
Selected slides are reviewed at the
The findings are communicated via e-mail to Dr.
Clinical History
Bladder cancer
Cystectomy with ureteroileal conduit
Source:
A: Right distal ureter
B: Left distal
C: Bladder and prostate
D: Left pelvic lymph nodes
E: Right pelvic lymph node
Gross Description
Specimen A, received fresh labeled with the patient's name and designated "right
distal ureter" is a tubular segment of tissue, 0.3 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis as
A1.
Specimen B, received fresh labeled with the patient's name and designated "left
distal ureter" is a tubular segment of tissue, 0.1 cm in length and 0.4 cm in
diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis as
B1.
Specimen C
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureter stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
but no differen
tration was seen
in piece taken
Ra TCGA
Ro
Page 3 of 6
Procedure: Cystectomy
Fixative: Fresh
Dimensions:
Bladder 9.5 cm SI x 5.3 cm LR x 5.5 cm AP
Right ureter - 8.2 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter
Left ureter -2.7 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter
Prostate - 3.5 cm apex to base x 4.3 cm left to right x 4.0 cm anterior to
posterior
Overall dimensions - 22.0 cm SI x 12.0 cm RL x 5.5 cm AP
Description of findings:
Tumor: 80% of the bladder mucosa is covered with ulcerated tumor. In the right
lateral wall, the tumor is 7.5 x 4.3 x 0.7 cm, invading through the wall and to
within 0.6 cm of the inked soft tissue margin. In the left fundus, there is a
3.5 x 2.5 cm area of tumor which extends through the wall and to within 1.2 cm
of the soft tissue margin. In the left lateral wall, there is a 2.5 x 2.2 cm
area of tumor which extends through the wall to the inked soft tissue margin.
In the anterior wall, there is a 4.5 x 4.0 cm area of tumor which extends
through the wall to the inked soft tissue margin. The tumor is ulcerated and
friable, most friable and ulcerated in the right lateral wall. The right ureter
is adhesed to the soft tissue, extending inferiorly and curving upward to the
ureteral orifice.
Involvement of Important adjacencies: The tumor abuts and surrounds the left and
right ureteral orifice, extends into the prostate, most prominent in the right
anterior base, extends into the seminal vesicles and focally extends through the
wall into the soft tissue.
Uninvolved mucosa: The mucosa not involved by tumor is somewhat edematous.
There is a pouch-like diverticulum in the right fundus, 2.5 cm in length with a
diameter of 2.2 cm. The pouch communicates with the bladder cavity. Ulcerated
tumor does not extend into the diverticulum.
Prostate: The prostate gland is serially sectioned apex to base into five slabs.
In the right anterior aspect of slab 2-5, there is tan firm tumor with
ulceration. The tumor is within 0.6 cm of the inked capsule. The remainder of
the gland is tan and granular, with focal striations and pale foci.
Ink code:
Anterior bladder - green
Posterior bladder - black
Right prostate - orange
Left prostate blue
Gross photographs are taken
Section key:
C1 - urethral margin
-
C2 left ureter and left ureteral orifice, blue ink on ureter
C3 right ureter and right ureteral orifice, blue ink on ureter
C4-C6 central bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor
C7-C8 right bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor
C9-C10 left bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor
C11-C13 right lateral wall tumor to inked soft tissue margin
C14-C15 left lateral bladder mucosa with tumor in soft tissue
C16 left lateral wall
C17 left fundus, tumor to inked soft tissue margin
C18-C20 - anterior bladder tumor to inked soft tissue margin
C21-C25 - diverticulum right fundus, C23-C25 junction with bladder
C26-C27 tumor at posterior soft tissue margin
C28-C29 left lateral wall tumor through wall to inked soft tissue margin
C30-slab 1 prostate right apex serially sectioned
C31 - slab 2 prostate right anterior
C32 slab 2 prostate right posterior
C33 slab 4 prostate right anterior
C34 slab 5 prostate right anterior
Page 4 of 6
C35- slab 5 prostate right posterior
C36 - slab 3 prostate right anterior
C37 - slab 1 prostate left apex serially sectioned
C38 slab 2 prostate left anterior
C39 slab 2 prostate left posterior
C40 - slab 4 prostate left anterior
C41 slab 4 prostate left posterior
C42 slab 5 prostate left posterior
Specimen D, received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"left pelvic lymph node" is adipose tissue, 5.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. There are three
nodes, 1.2 cm, 1.5 cm, and 2.0 cm. The cut surface of each node shows a diffuse
white infiltrating parenchyma. The nodes are submitted entirely as follows:
D1 - one node trisected
D2 one node quadrisected
D3 - one node serially sectioned into six pieces
Specimen E, received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"right pelvic lymph node" is adipose tissue, 5.5 x 3.5 x 1.6 cm. There are
seven possible nodes, 0.5 to 2.0 cm. One of the larger nodes shows infiltrating
white parenchyma (E2). The nodes are submitted entirely as follows:
E1-four whole nodes
E2 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces
E3 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces
E4 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces
Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.
A-E. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
Intraoperative Diagnosis
Time in:
Time out:
A1-FS. Right distal ureter: "Negative for tumor."
Time in:
Time out:
B1-FS. Left distal ureter: "Negative for tumor; incomplete transection."
Reported to Dr.
by Dr.
***Electronically Signed Out By
Results
Pathology Report
Result History
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Collection Information
Specimen Source Date and Time
Other
Intraoperative Consultation Report
Order Result History Report.
Accession #
Lab Information
Yes
No
✓
Page 5 of 6
Criteria w 8/8/13
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Pur Tss
Squamous - Ø
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted Prostate
Case is (circle):
No
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Reviewe: Initials
ME
Date Reviewed:
8/5/13
✓
.
:
