Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALCED
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
10/31/11
UUID:6184F94F-BA8F-4435-A839-E1FEA6EFFDF3
TCGA-A1-
A0SO-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
C50.9
lu 10/21/11
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node, excision: Metastatic carcinoma involving one
lymph node(1/1).
B. Breast, right, mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma,4.8 cm, SBRgrade 3 and
high-grade intraductal carcinoma; see comment.
C. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: Seven lymph nodes negative for tumor,(0/7).
-
D. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: One lymphnode, no tumor seen (0/1).
E. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: No lymph node seen, no tumor,(0/0).
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 4.8 cm maximum diameter.
Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 3, 3 points.
Mitotic count: 10-20 mitotic figures/10 HPF, 2 points.
Tubule/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation is apparent in <10%, 3 points.
Total points and overall grade = 8 points = grade 3.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Not present.
Resection margins for invasive tumor:
- Deep margin: Negative (tumor is 1.5 cm away, on slide B4).
- Medial margin: Negative (>3 cm).
- Lateral margin: Negative (>3 cm).
Page 1 of 4
-
-
-
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative (tumor is 1 cm away, on slide B6).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative (tumor is 3 cm away, on slide B7).
- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: Solid.
· Ductal carcinoma in situ size:
DCIS present as scattered microscopic foci up to 0.1 cm in diameter, involving one of twelve
total slides.
Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: High grade.
Necrosis in DCIS: A small amount of necrosis is seen.
- Microcalcifications: None.
- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ:
-
Deep margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide 85).
Medial margin: Negative (tumor is >3 cm away).
Lateral margin: Negative (tumor is >3 cm away).
· Anterior/superior margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide B6)
· Anterior/inferior margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide B7).
- Lymph node status: Sentinel lymph node positive for carcinoma, metastasis 0.4cm diameter,no
capsular penetration.
-
-
-
Number of positive lymph nodes: 1.
Total number sampled: 9.
Diameter of largest metastasis: 1.6 cm.
- Extranodal extension: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N1MX.
Nontumorous breast tissue: Unremarkable.
Nipple: Uninvolved.
Skin/dermis: Uninvolved.
- Additional comments: Preliminary results were discussed with medical oncology team
on
•
PR, ER not requested.
This report was amended due to a typographical error. The diagnoses have not been altered.
Intraoperative 
Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. (Frozen section
and cytologic 
preparation.) (Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is a
-year-old woman with right breast cancer. Right breast tumor. The patient now
undergoes right mastectomy and right axillary lymph node dissections.
Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in five parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.
Part A is additionally labeled
consists of a single soft, oval,
pink lymph node, measuring 2.1 × 1,1 × 1 cm. The surgeon marks the hot spot with a stitch. This
stitched area is 
subsequently inked black. The node is bisected. Touch preparations and scrape
preparations are made
. The remaining tissue is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS1, with
the frozen section remnant 
submitted in cassette A1.
Part B, additionally labeled
consists of a single mastectomy
specimen. The breast tissue weighs 027 yil and measures 20.5 cm from medial to lateral, 20.7 cm
from 
superior to inferior, and 5.7 cm from anterior to posterior. Anteriorly, the specimen exhibits a
skin ellipse measuring 
19.9 x 9.2 cm. The breast areola is 4.5 x 3.9 cm and the nipple is 1.1 x 1.1 x
0.7 cm. 
The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation: anterior superior surface in blue, the
anterior inferior surface 
in green, the posterior surface in black. On the posterior surface, a large, 12
cm incision is noted
, representing the site from which the tumor sample was banked. The specimen is
serially sectioned from medial 
to lateral to reveal a chalky white tumor with irregular borders. The
Page 2 of 4
Surgical Pathology - i
Working Draft
tumor measures 3.5 x 3.2 x 4.8 cm (medial to lateral) and exhibits punctate hemorrhages. The
specimen is sliced into twenty-one slices. The tumor is located between slices 6 and 11. Furthermore,
in slice 9, there is a cystic mass measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm. It is filled with clear serosanguinous
fluid. The tumor margins are as follows: tumor is 1.2 cm from the posterior (black) margin, 0.8 cm
from the closest skin margin, 2.3 cm from the closest green margin, and 1.5 cm from the closest blue
margin. The remainder of the fatty breast parenchyma is unremarkable. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:
Cassettes B1-83:
Cassette B4:
Cassette B5:
Cassette B6:
Cassette B7:
Cassette B8:
Cassette B9:
Cassette B10:
Cassette B11;
Cassette B12:
Nipple.
Tumor with posterior margin.
Tumor with skin margin.
Tumor with blue margin.
Tumor with green margin.
Cystic mass.
Lateral inferior, representative section.
Lateral superior, representative section.
Medial superior, representative section.
Medial inferior, representative section.
Part C, additionally labeled
consists of an unoriented irregularly shaped piece of
fatty tissue measuring 5.5 x 5 x 4 cm. It is yellow to tan. Within the tissue, seven firm nodes are
palpated, as well as two large matted nodes. All nodes are submitted as follows:
Cassettes C1-C2:
Large matted lymph node mass 1.
Large matted lymph node mass 2.
Lymph nodes, three pieces.
Cassettes C3-C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Lymph node, one piece.
Cassette C8:
Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).
Lymph nodes, two pieces.
Part D, additionally labeled
consists of a single piece of unoriented,
Irregularly shaped, fatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The specimen exhibits a single ovold
nodule measuring 1 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The nodule is firm; this is entirely submitted in cassette D1.
Part E, additionally labeled '
consists of a single piece of unoriented,
irregularly shaped fatty tissue measuring 5 x 5 x 2 cm. The specimen is yellow to tan and palpation of
the specimen reveals fourteen firm nodes ranging from 0.3 to 1.5 cm in diameter. The nodes are
entirely submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Lymph nodes, two pieces.
Cassette E2:
Lymph nodes, two pieces.
Cassette E3:
Lymph nodes, three pieces.
Cassette E4:
Cassette E5:
Cassette E6:
Cassette E7:
Cassette E8:
Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).
Lymph nodes, three pieces.
Lymph nodes, three pieces.
Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).
Lymph node, one piece.
Pathology Resident
Fee Codes:
Amendments
Amended:
Reason:
Typographical Error
Typographical Error in synoptic comment
/Pathologist
Signed:
Page 3 of 4
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Previous Signout Date:
Other Specimens
_ Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Specimen(s) Received: immunohistostaining & interpretation only
Final Diagnosis
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Immunostaining and interpretation for ER, PR, and HER2/neu on
B4:
Breast, right, mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma negative for ER and PR, and
indeterminate for HER2 protein overexpression; see comment.
END OF REPORT
Page 4 of 4
