BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: Block(A4)
TEST
Estrogen Receptor:
Progesterone Receptor:
Ki-67 (MIB1) Proliferation Marker.
Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
Ref Physician
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
SPECIMEN INEC
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
*** ADDENDUM REPORT ***
RESULT
POSITIVE (93%)
Staining Intensity: Strong
POSITIVE (60%)
Staining Intensity: Strong
HIGH (32%)
REFERENCE RANGES
≥ 1% is Positive
< 1% is Negative
≥ 1% is Positive
<1% is Negative
> 20% is High
10-20% is Borderline
<10% is Low
0-1+ Negative
Her2 by IHC:
EQUIVOCAL (2+ staining)
Weak, circumferential membrane staining in > 10% of cancer cells or <30% with strong complete membrane staining
2+ Equivocal
3+ Positive
A reflex to HER-2/neu by FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridization) will be performed and an additional report will follow.
These results were interpreted at.
were evaluated and deemed adequate for ER/PR/Ki-67/.
parameters. All controls show appropriate reactivity.
Slides from this sample
nalysis. Statua assay conditions were met, including cold ischemia time and fixation
UUID:58978086-7443-4721-854B-877CE@FC10C0
TCGA-AC-A6IV-01A-PR
Redacted
[Specific testing information and references have been added to the microscopic description]
The original diagnosis remains unchanged.
Addendum Report Issued by:
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right breast mastectomy:
Invasive mammary carcinoma.
Favor pleomorphic lobular carcinoma.
Size: 2.2 cm.
Architectural score: 3 of 3.
Nuclear score: 2 of 3.
Mitotic score: 2 of 3.
Total score: 7 of 9.
Grade 2.
Prognostic panel will follow as an addendum.
No evidence of in situ carcinoma.
No evidence of angiolymphatic invasion.
All surgical margins of excision are free of carcinoma.
Closest margin is deep and is 1.5 cm.
B. Right axillary sentinel lymph node: One lymph node, Metastatic carcinoma.
Size of involvement within the node: 0.3 cm.
CECF
ICD0-3
Carcinoma, Schular infiltrating
Самакота,
path
NOS
Carcinoma, bular infiltrating mixed
w/other types (pleomorphic
) 8524/3
Site & Breast 
NOS C50.9
26/17/13
No evidence of extracapsular extension.
Confirmed by staining for pancytokeratin.
TMN: T2pN1
DIAGNOSIS
Electronic Signature:
CLINICAL HISTORY:
NICAL INFORMATION
Preoperative Diagnosis: Right modified radical mastectomy with sentinel node mapping with frozen section. Invasive mammary carcinoma. ER positive.
PR positive. Her-2 negative.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right breast
B. Right axilla sentinel node
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
MEN DA
A. The first container A is received labeled with the patient's name
ight breast." The specimen consists of portion of fibroadipose breast
tissue and overlying skin measuring 20.0 x 16.5 x 6.0 cm and weighs 643 grams. The skin surface measures 20.0 x 9.2 cm, is light tan, wrinkled. There
are no lesions seen grossly. The nipple is eccentrically placed and appears grossly unremarkable. There is no orientation given to the specimen. The
margins have been inked yellow with the exception of the deep margin, which has been inked black. Sectioning reveals a firm gray-tan ill-defined mass
that measures 2.2 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm that is 1.5 cm from the deep margin and is 2.7 from the closest lateral margin. The surrounding breast tissue reveals
yellow-tan fatty fibroadipose tissue. There are no other lesions identified. At the periphery of the breast, there are no lymph nodes identified. Received
with the specimen are three cassettes, one yellow, one green and one blue labeled
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes
labeled
follows: nipple block 1; deep margin overlying the mass in block 2; sections from the mass in blocks 3 through 7; random
sections taken from all four quadrants in blocks 8 through 11.
B. The second container B is received in formalin labeled
tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node that measures 1.8 x 0.7 x 0.9 cm. The lymph node is sectioned and is
entirely submitted in two cassettes labeled
right axilla sentinel node.' The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose
MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:
ER/PgR.
HER2/neu Scoring
system
Cold Ischemic
Time, Fixative,
Processing
THERAPEUTIC MARKER ASSAY CONDITIONS
Breast Cancer Analysis using Immuno-histochemistry,
review.
and Pathologist
is an automated digital slide creation, management, viewing
and computer-assisted analysis system which aids the pathologist in the detection, classification,
and counting of cells of interest thereby standardizing slide scoring through quantitative
assessment of marker intensity, size and shape. This laboratory uses a modified version of a FDA
approved test. An antibody other than the FDA approved antibody for the
algorithm is used.
The performance characteristics of these assays have been determined by
test.
Performance characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the
Specimen should be placed in neutral buffered formalin within 1 hour of removal from the patient
and fixed for a minimum of 6 but not in excess of 48 hours. Specimen are processed by routine
tissue processing methods.
Staining Method Used
Staining platform, antibodies and associated reagent below are all manufactured by
are FDA approved.
Primary
Antibodies
Controls
Antigen
Retrieval Type
Detection
System Type
and
ER - Anti-Estrogen receptor (clone SP1) primary antibody is a rabbit monoclonal antibody (IgG) that
is used for the qualitative detection of estrogen receptor antigens.
PgR - Anti-Progesterone Receptor (clone 1E2) primary antibody is a rabbit monoclonal antibody
(IgG) that is used for the quantitative detection of the A, B and C isoforms of human progesterone
receptor antigens.
Ki-67 - Anti-Ki-67 primary antibody is directed against the C-terminal portion of the Ki-67 antigen,
which is expressed in the nuclei of proliferating cells (normal and neoplastic). The antibody identifies
proliferating activity in sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue on an automated slide
stainer platform.
HER-2/neu - PATHWAY Anti-HER-2/neu (485) primary antibody is a rabbit monoclonal antibody
(IgG
) that is used for semi-quantitative detection of HER2 antigens.
ER, PR, HER-2/neu are prepared from sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue on an
automated slide stainer platform.
All Controls show appropriate reactivity (high protein expression, low protein expression, negative
protein expression, internal elements from normal breast tissue included 
with sample.
A tris based buffer with a slightly basic pH, which, at elevated temperatures is capable of hydrolyzing
the covalent bonds formed by formalin in tissue.
Indirect biotin streptavidin detection system
Criteria
crepancy
4/13/13
newer Initials
11/84/7
✓ DISQUALIFILD
༧་་་འི་
