UUID:9B3FA7CE-F924-4DD5-9E2E-13F889A2B3AA
TCGA-PQ-A6FI-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-O-3
Caranoma, urothelial Nas
Surgical Pathology Report
8120/3
Site Bladder Nos.
0679
JW 6/17/13
AMENDED REPORT:
THIS AMENDED REPORT SUPERSEDES THE ORIGINAL REPORT, ISSUED ON
THE
AMENDMENT CORRECTS THE NAME OF THE PATHOLOGIST PERFORMING THE FROZEN SECTION.
THE REPORT IS OTHERWISE UNCHANGED.
Microscopic Diagnosis:
A) Ureter, left distal margin, excision:
- Fibroadipose tissue and small blood vessels with no evidence of malignancy
B) Ureter, right distal margin, excision:
- Cross section of ureter without diagnostic abnormality
C) Ureter, left distal margin, excision:
- Fibromuscular and adipose tissue, and thick blood vessels with no evidence of malignancy
D) Urethra, distal margin, excision:
- Urethral tissue with no evidence of malignancy
E) Urinary bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
URINARY BLADDER
- Urothelial carcinoma, high grade (WHO 3/3), with squamous differentiation (~20%), ulcerated
and with focal necrosis
- Invasive into superficial muscularis propria
- Surgical margins and perivesical adipose tissue with no evidence of malignancy
-
No evidence of lymphovascular invasion
PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES:
- Benign prostatic hyperplasia
- No evidence of malignant invasion
F) Lymph node, left external iliac, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2)
G) Lymph node, left internal iliac, dissection:
- Five lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0 / 5)
H) Lymph node, left obturator, dissection:
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/4)
Surgical Pathology Report
1) Lymph node, left common iliac, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2)
J) Lymph node, right obturator, dissection:
- One lymph node with no evidence of malignancy (0/1)
K) Lymph nodes, right internal illac, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2)
- Old arterial thrombus
L) Lymph nodes, left external iliac, dissection:
- Six lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/6)
M) Lymph nodes, right common iliac, dissection:
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/4)
N) Lymph nodes, presacral, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2)
Comments:
Staging: This case corresponds to AJCC pathologic stage grouping II (pT2a, NO, Mx). Pathologic staging is
based only on submitted tissue and tissue diagnoses available at the time that the report is issued. It does
not necessarily coincide with the overall clinical stage.
Microscopic Description:
MICROSCOPIC SUMMARY (URINARY BLADDER):
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma with squamous differentiation
Associated Epithelial Lesions: Urothelial (transitional cell) papilloma (World Health Organization [WHO]
2004/ International Society of Urologic Pathology [ISUP])
Histologic Grade: High-grade
Tumor Configuration: Papillary, Ulcerated
Microscopic Tumor Extension: None identified
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
*Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 20mm
Margin(s) uninvolved by carcinoma in situ
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Surgical Pathology Report
Primary Tumor (PT): pT2a: Tumor invades superficial muscularis propria (inner half)
Regional Lymph Nodes (PN) pNO: No lymph node metastasis; Examined: 28, Involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Mx
*Additional Pathologic Findings Urothelial dysplasia (low-grade intraurothelial neoplasia),
inflammation/regenerative changes, Therapy-related changes
Picture. Urothelial carcinoma, high grade, invasive into superficial muscularis propria (20x)
Clinical History:
year-old man with muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Gross Description:
Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled with the patient's name and medical record number
are four specimens:
A) Designated "left distal ureteral margin," consists of predominantly tan fat measuring 0.5 x0.4 x 0.3 cm.
The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette (A1).
Surgical Pathology Report
B) Designated "right distal ureteral margin," and consists of a tan circular fragment of soft tissue measuring
0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis. The remainder of
specimen is submitted in cassette (FSB1).
C) Designated "distal ureteral margin" and consists of circular tan tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis and subsequently submitted in (FSC1).
D) Designated "urethra distal," consists of three fragments of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.5
cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette (FSD1) after frozen section.
Received in formalin labeled
is nine additional specimens:
E) Designated "bladder and prostate," is a cystoprostatectomy specimen 9 cm from right to left, 6.1 cm from
bladder dome to bladder neck, and 6.5 cm from anterior to posterior. There is an attached right ureter, 3.5
cm and left ureter 1.5 cm. The prostate is 4.5 cm from right to left, and 3.5 cm from apex to base and 2.5 cm
from anterior to posterior. Attached to the bladder is 8.5cm of urachal fat. The peritoneal surfaces are
smooth. Opening the bladder reveals a 4.5 x 2.5 x1.5cm fulgurated tumor, which appears to invade the
detrusor muscle and is located at 2 cm from the posterior peritoneal margin of resection. The tumor involves
the bladder neck and is at 3.1 cm from the prostate apex urethral margin. The tumor involves the right
ureteral orifice and the right bladder wall including the trigone. The cut surface of the tumor is tan and
indurated without evidence of necrosis. A section is harvested for tumor banking. The remainder of the
urothelium is grayish-tan and wrinkled and without additional mass lesions. There is moderate congestion
contiguous with the left ureteral orifice. The tumor is 4.1 cm from the right ureteral margin. Further sectioning
of the tumor shows extension of the tumor up to 0.6 cm of the right blue inked soft tissue margin. Definitive
lymph nodes are not identified in the pericystic fat.
Serial sectioning of the prostate shows tan and rubbery cut surfaces. At the bladder neck the tumor appears
to extend near the prostate base. No additional definitive lesions are grossly identified within the prostatic
parenchyma. The prostate includes seminal vesicles and deferens up to 2.1 cm and 6.9 cm respectively.
Representative sections are submitted as:
(E1) Prostate, apex margin, shave and perpendicularly sectioned
(E2-E4) Right prostate apex mid and base
(E5-E7) Prostate left apex mid and base
(E8-E9) Bladder neck to prostate including tumor
(E10)) Right bladder wall
(E11) Right ureteral orifice
(E12) Left ureteral orifice
(E13) Trigone
(E14) Anterior bladder wall
(E15) Bladder dome
(E16) Unremarkable bladder mucosa and wall
Surgical Pathology Report
(E17-E19) Possible lymph nodes
MACROSCOPIC SUMMARY (URINARY BLADDER):
Specimen: Urinary Bladder
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
*Tumor Site: Trigone, Right lateral wall
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm; Additional dimensions: 2.5x1.5 cm
F) Designated "external iliac lymph node," consists of multiple fragments of tan-yellow adipose tissue
measuring in aggregate 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm. Three candidate lymph nodes have been identified ranging from
0.5 to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:
(F1) Single lymph node candidate
(F2) Soft tissue
(F3) Single lymph node candidate bisected
(F4) Single lymph node candidate bisected
G) Designated "left internal iliac lymph node," and consists of multiple fragments of tan-brown soft tissue
measuring in aggregate 2.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The specimen contains three lymph node candidates ranging from
0.8 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:
(G1) Soft tissue
(G2) Single lymph node candidate bisected
(G3) Single lymph node candidate bisected
(G4) Single lymph node candidate
H) Designated "left obturator lymph node," and consists of multiple fragments of tan-yellow soft tissue
measuring 6.5 x 4.3 x 2.2 cm, contains two lymph node candidates ranging from 0.7 to 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension. There is also a large vessel and representative sections are submitted as follows:
(H1-H2) Soft tissue single lymph node candidate (H2)
(H3) Single lymph node candidate
(H4) Vessel, bisected
1) Designated "left common iliac lymph node," consists of multiple fragments of tan soft tissue measuring 2.8
x 1.7 x 1 cm. The specimen contains four lymph node candidates, each approximately 0.7 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:
(11) Three lymph node candidates
(12) Single lymph node candidate
(13) Soft tissue
J) Designated "right obturator lymph nodes, consists of a single piece of tan-light brown soft tissue
measuring 3.6 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm. Single lymph node candidate is identified measuring 2.4 cm in greatest
dimension. Specimen is submitted entirely as follows:
Surgical Pathology Report
(J1-J2) Single lymph node candidate, bisected
(J3-J4) Soft tissue
K) Designated "right internal iliac lymph nodes,” consists of three tan-brown soft tissue fragments measuring
in aggregate 2.4 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. Two lymph node candidates have been identified ranging from 0.6 to 0.9 cm
in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
(K1) Single lymph node candidate
(K2) Soft tissue
(K3) Single lymph node candidate bisected
L) Designated "right external iliac lymph node," consists of multiple fragments of tan-yellow fibroadipose
tissue measuring 6 x 4.2 x 1.3 cm. Five lymph node candidates have been identified ranging from 0.9 to 1.2
cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections submitted as follows:
(L1) Four lymph node candidates
(L2) Soft tissue
(L3) Single lymph node candidate
(L4) Single lymph node candidate bisected
(L5) Soft tissue
M) Designated "common iliac lymph node," consists of a single fragment of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
measuring 4.8 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:
(M1) Three lymph node candidates
(M2) Single lymph node candidate, bisected
(M3-M5) Remaining soft tissue
N) Designated "presacral lymph node," consists of a single tan fibroadipose tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.3
cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette (N1).
Intraoperative Consultation:
Frozen section consultation
FSA1: Fat and vessel wall, no ureter present
FSB1: Negative for malignancy
FSC1: Vessel no ureter present
FSD1: Negative for malignancy
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
5/23/13
Yes
No
Primary Turnor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
