UUID:58C20FBF-E737-4DA9-9682-AAF4D483371A
TCGA-FD-A3SJ-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race:
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
riteria
iagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Note
ase is (circle):
eviewer joitals
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED.
W 4/2/18-4/2/12
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Cystoprostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection,
"Bladder, prostate, vas deferens" (part C):
-
Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma, see parameters below.
Benign prostate and seminal vesicles.
"Right pelvic lymph nodes" (part A):
Three of nine lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma (the
largest implant almost completely replaces a 0.8 cm node).
"Left pelvic lymph nodes" (part B):
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, urothelial, Nos
812013
Site:
path: bladder wall, NOS
6679
COCF: bladder, wall,
-
Seven lymph nodes, no evidence of tumor (0/7).
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Flat urothelial carcinoma
2. Grade of tumor: High-grade
3. Depth of invasion: Tumor shows invasion to the outer half of the muscularis
propria
4. Tumor distribution: Large solitary lesion involving the posterior wall,
right lateral wall and left lateral wall as lesion measuring 5 x 3 cm grossly
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor
7. Soft tissue margin: Negative for tumor
8. Lymph nodes: Positive for tumor (see above parts A and B)
9. pTNM: pT2b, N2, MX
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the
edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[], MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist.
Electronically Signed Out by (), MD
49-12
пр
lateral
6672
Clinical History
The patient is a
-year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing radical
cystectomy, bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection, ileal conduit.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Bladder, prostate, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in three containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 5.0 x 1.8 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 9 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 to 6.1 x 1.1
x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as
follows:
A1-A2:
5 lymph node candidates
One lymph node, bisected
A3:
A4:
A5:
One lymph node, bisected
A6-A7:
One lymph node, bisected
One lymph node, sectioned
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.7 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 8 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 to 2.7 x 1.5
x 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as
follows:
B1:
B2:
B3:
B4:
B5:
B6-B7:
3 lymph node candidates
One lymph node, bisected
One lymph node, bisected
One lymph node, bisected
One lymph node, bisected
One lymph node, sectioned
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate, vas
deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 396.8 gm, 15.0 x 12.0 x
4.5 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat. The bladder
measures 9.5 x 8.0 x 4.0 cm. The bilateral ureteral orifices are identified and
probe patent. The right ureteral stump measures 4.5 x 0.4 cm and the left 4.5 x
0.5 cm, and both demonstrate patent lumina. The prostate measures 4.5 x 4.0 x
3.5 cm. The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left
half is inked black. The prostate is opened anteriorly along the urethra and
continued superiorly through the bladder in a Y-shaped incision. The prostate is
serially sectioned from apex to base to reveal unremarkable, bulging yellow-tan
parenchyma without indurations; there is periurethral nodularity. The bladder
demonstrates an area of ulceration with underlying induration on the right
posterolateral wall that measures 5.0 x 3.0 cm. The mucosal surface overlying
this induration has a flattened, granular appearance. Serial sectioning reveals
tumor invasion to within 0.2 cm of the inked margin, and grossly apparent
invasion into the muscularis propria. Adjacent to this area of ulceration and
induration, toward the left posterolateral wall, there is a poorly defined area
of mucosa with a granular appearance without prominent papillary excrescences;
the tissue underlying this granular mucosa is somewhat indurated. The remainder
of the mucosa is tan-brown, edematous, and glistening with a uniform 2.5 cm wall
thickness. The external surface of the bladder is red-tan and glistening with no
grossly identifiable lymph nodes. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:
Distal urethral margin
Prostatic apical margin
Cl:
C2:
C3:
C4:
Right ureteral margin
Left ureteral margin
C5:
Right ureteral orifice
C6:
C7-C12:
C13:
C14-C22:
C23:
C24:
C25:
Left ureteral orifice
Multiple tumor sections, including deepest invasion in C12
Representative section from adjacent, granular mucosa
Representative sections of prostate from apex to base
Seminal vessels and vasa deferentia
Uninvolved dome
Uninvolved anterior wall
C26:
Uninvolved posterior wall
C27:
Uninvolved right wall
C28:
Uninvolved left wall
Gross photograph was taken of a representative section of the ulcerated,
indurated region.
XX
[] M.D.
