Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
tw 10/21/11
UUID:4F047F5B-EF3A-4590-8E7A-D90A52860324
TCGA-A1-A0SM-01A-PR
4
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, NoS
050.9
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
N 10/21/11
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).
B. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).
C. Left axillary minor sentinel lymph node #3, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node
(0/1).
D. Left breast, mastectomy:
1. Invasive ductal carcinoma, 3.5 cm, grade 2, associated with microcalcifications;
see comment.
2. Ductal carcinoma in situ, cribriform, intermediate grade.
3. Gynecomastia.
Note:
Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Left.
-
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 3.5 cm maximum diameter.
Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): Grade 2.
Nuclear grade: 3 = 3 points.
Mitotic count: <10 mitotic figures/10 HPF
=
1 point.
Tubule/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation in <10% = 3 points.
Total points and overall grade: 7 points = grade 2.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None.
- Perineural invasion: None.
Resection margins for invasive tumor:
-
· Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide D4).
Page 1 of 8
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.8 cm away, on slide D3).
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: Cribriform.
Ductal carcinoma in situ size: 0.3 cm.
Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: Intermediate nuclear grade.
Necrosis in DCIS: None.
- Microcalcifications: Present in invasive carcinoma.
-
Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ:
-
-
Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Lymph node status: Negative (0/3).
- AJCC/UICC stage: PT2N0MX.
Nontumorous breast tissue: Gynecomastia.
- Nipple: No tumor.
- Skin/dermis: No tumor.
- Additional comments: Each sentinel lymph node was examined with level sections. No metastatic
carcinoma was identified.
has reviewed selected slides and concurs with the findings.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1. left axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. Cytologic preparations and frozen
section.
FS2 (B) Sentinel lymph node #2, left axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. Cytologic preparations and frozen
section.
Clinical History
The patient is a
-year-old
with invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast. This diagnosis was
established by core biopsy at another institution That hinney showed that the carcinoma is ER, PR,
and HER-2-positive.
Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in four parts, each labeled with the patient's name and unit number.
Part A, labeled ";
consists of a single soft irregular
red-yellow candidate lymph node measuring 2.7 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm. Extraneous fatty tissue is removed.
The candidate lymph node is bisected. Touch and scrape preparations are made. The remaining
lymph node is submitted for frozen section, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The unused
fatty tissue is entirely submitted in cassette A2.
Part B, labeled '
nsists of a single soft irregular red-yellow
candidate lymph node measuring 1.7 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. Extraneous fatty tissue is removed. The lymph
node is bisected. Touch and scrape preparations are made. The remaining lymph node is submitted
for frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette B1. The unused fatty tissue is
entirely submitted in cassette B2.
Part C, additionally labeled "
," consists of a single fragment of yellow fibrofatty
tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. One candidate lymph node is palpated within the fatty tissue. The
Page 2 of 8
-
Surgical Pathology –
specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C1.
Part D, additionally labeled
Working Draft
consists of a mastectomy specimen oriented with
a short suture superior and any suture lateral. The specimen measures 14.2 cm from superior to
inferior, 14.5 cm from medial to lateral and 3 cm from anterior to posterior. On the anterior surface,
there is a skin ellipse measuring 12.4 x 4.6 cm. Within the skin ellipse is a nipple/areola measuring 2
cm in diameter. A firm mass is palpated deep and medial to the nipple in the inner upper and lower
quadrants. The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation, with the anterior superior inked in blue,
the anterior inferior inked in green and the posterior inked in black. The specimen is then sectioned
into fifteen slices, numbered from medial to lateral. The nipple-areolar complex appears in slices 5-7.
Sectioning shows an irregular, lobulated, pink-tan mass measuring 3.5 cm; this is located in the inner
lower quadrant deep to the nipple, in slices 5-7. The cyst mass extends to within 0.7 cm of the deep
margin, 1.7 cm from the anterior superior margin, and 1.9 cm from the anterior inferior margin. The
remainder of the breast parenchyma consists of yellow fatty tissue and is unremarkable. Cassettes
are submitted as follows:
Cassettes D1-D2:
Cassettes D3-D4:
Cassettes D5-D7:
Cassette D8:
Cassette D9:
Cassette D10:
Cassette D11:
Cassette D12:
Cassette D13:
Cassette D14:
Cassette D15:
Cassette D16:
Cassette D17:
Nipple.
Mass, slice 5.
Mass, slice 6 (widest cross-section superior to inferior).
Representative medial margin.
Representative lateral margin.
Representative unremarkable inner upper quadrant, slice 2.
Representative unremarkable inner upper quadrant, slice 4.
Representative unremarkable inner lower quadrant, slice 3.
Representative unremarkable inner lower quadrant, slice 4.
Representative unremarkable outer upper quadrant, slice 9.
Representative unremarkable outer upper quadrant, slice 12.
Representative unremarkable outer lower quadrant, slice 10.
Representative unremarkable outer lower quadrant, slice 13.
Fee Codes:
✓ Pathology Resident
Addenda
Addendum.
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
7
Pathologist
Signed:
Status: Signed Out
By:
Addendum Comment
An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HER2 was
performed on block D6.
The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is variable nuclear staining (ranging from weak to
strong) in ~20% of tumor cells.
The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.
Result of HER2/neu test: This carcinoma is positive for HER2/neu oncoprotein over-expression.
Page 3 of 8
Surgical Pathology
Working Draft
An immunohistochemical assay was performed using the CB11 monoclonal antibody to HER2/neu
oncoprotein. 
The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 3 on a scale of 0-3.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein.
Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do 
not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results 
of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation 
between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.
The immunnneroxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the
They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance 
or 
approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not be regarded as investigational or for research. 
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified 
to perform high-complexity clinical testing.
Pathologist
Electronically signed out on
Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Page 4 of 8
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Page 5 of 8
Surgical Pathology -
_ Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Working Draft
Accessione
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Page 7 of 8
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
END OF REPORT
Page 8 of 8
