TSS Patient ID:
UUID: BEBOE95C-EDF2-40A5-BB95-588D07369CEE
TCGA-E7-A7DU-01A-PR
Redacted
Surgical Date:
Gross Description: 1. Bladder tumor fragments endoscopy recovered with histologic aspect of papillary
urothelial carcinoma well/moderate differentiated G1/G2 (low-grade), areas of squamous metaplasia,
ulcerated, nectrotic, stpT1 (at least).
2. Piece of cystoprostatectomy presenting the urinary bladder with a vegetative tumoral proliferation,
developed on trigone, retro-trigone and left wall level, with intramural evolution, peri-OUS, large
implanting base and invasive in the whole wall.
Histopathological aspect of infiltrative urothelial cell carcinoma, well/moderately differentiated, G1/G2
(low-grade), with areas of squamous metaplasia, ulcerated, necrotic, intramural evolution and invasion
of the entire bladder wall; stpT3. Prostate and seminal vesicles with histological structure preserved.
3.Right ilio-obturator group of 8 (eight) lymph nodes of maximum 1.3 cm in dimensions, with reactive
aspect, congestion and sclera-lipomatous dystrophy
4. Left ilio-obturator group of 6 (six) lymph nodes of maximum 1.5 cm with reactive aspect, congestion
and sclero-lipomatous dystrophy.
5-6. left and right ureter with preserved histological aspect.
Microscopic Description:
Diagnosis Details: CONCLUSION:
Papillary urothelial cell carcinoma of the bladder, well/moderate differentiated, G1/G2, (low-grade) with
areas of squamous metaplasia, stpT3, pNo, pMx (stage III).
CSCF
ICD-0.3
Caremima, urothelial NOS
Comments:
Formatted Path Reports: BLADDER TISSUE CHECKLIST
patt
Specimen type: Cystectomy
Tumor site: Bladder
cell
812013
Manational
"Carmona, papillary 8130/3
Site Bladder, trigone,
2670
Tumor size: 4x4 cm
Tumor features: Ulcerated
Histologic type: Transitional cell carcinoma, papillary
Histologic grade: Moderately to well differentiated
Это
- 9/4/13
Tumor extent: Perivesical tissue (microscopic)
Lymph nodes: 0/14 positive for metastasis (Regional 0/14)
Lymphatic invasion: Not specified
Venous invasion: Not specified
Margins: Uninvolved
Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified
Comments: None
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (cie)
Reviewer
8/21/13
QUALIFIED
Date viewed:
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
No
✓
8/2/153
