Gender: Male
Race: Unknown
Pathology Report:
UUID:2C24A4C8-5866-4077-8497-5294CA674C36
TCGA-FD-A5BR-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-O-3
Carcinoma, Urothelial NOS
8120/3
Path Site: Bladder ②lateral Anterior Wach
0678
COCF: Bladder. Lateral Wall, C67.2
W 12/24/12
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Eighteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/18).
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Sixteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/16).
C. Urinary bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy:
- Bladder with multifocal (X2) invasive urothelial carcinoma, with squamous
(40%), microcystic (15%), focal clear cell feature (5%) and focal glandular (5%)
differentiation, see pathologic parameters.
- Prostate with prostatic adenocarcinoma, see pathologic parameters.
D. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion ureter, no tumor.
E. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma, with squamous (40%), microcystic
(15%), focal clear cell feature (5%) and focal glandular (5%) differentiation.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria- outer half.
4. Tumor distribution: Multifocal (X2), 2.2 cm in right lateral wall and 1.7 cm
in left anterior wall.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/34).
su diagnostic
discrepany form
9. pTNM: pT2b,N0,MX.
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason Score: 3+4=7.
2. Perineural Invasion: Absent.
3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - right.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 7%.
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.
7. Extraprostatic extension: Absent.
8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/34).
12. pTNM: pT2a,N0,MX.
Effective
his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[], MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD, PhD
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD
Clinical History:
The patient is a
year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing a radical
cystectomy with neobladder.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph nodes
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes
C: Bladder,prostate and seminal vesicles
D: Left distal ureter
E: Right distal ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in five containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 9.2 x 6.5 x 2.8 cm. Several apparent lymph nodes and lymph
node candidates are identified ranging in size from 0.3-3.6 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
A1-A2: One sectioned lymph node.
A3-A6: One sectioned lymph node, each cassette
A7-A9: 2 lymph nodes, each cassette
A10-A11: 4 lymph node candidates, each cassette
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 7.5 x 6.2 x 2.5 cm. Several apparent lymph nodes and lymph
node candidates are identified ranging in size from 0.2-3.8 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1-B2: One sectioned lymph node
B3-B4: One sectioned lymph node, each cassette
B5: One lymph node
B6: 2 lymph nodes.
B7-B8: 2 lymph nodes, each cassette
B9-B10: 3 lymph node candidates, each cassette
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate and
seminal vesicles". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 18.5 x 13.5 x 5.0
cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 17.0 x 10.0 x 4.0 cm markedly
dilated bladder with diffusely thickened wall and attached mesenteric fat, and a
4.3 x 3.5 x 3.4 cm prostate. The right seminal vesicles measure 3.5 x 1.4 x 0.9
cm and right vas deferens measures 2.5 cm. The left seminal vesicles measures
3.5 x 1.7 x 0.8 cm and left vas deferens measures 3.6 cm. The right ureteral
stump measures 0.9 x 0.4 cm, the left measures 0.6 x 0.4 cm, and both
demonstrate intact, patent lumens.
The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The prostate is surrounded by a thin, intact membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri-urethral nodularity with no discrete masses
or indurations.
The opened bladder reveals a 2.2 x 2.2 cm papillary, friable mass was ulceration
located in the right lateral wall. On cut section, the mass extends into but
not through the muscularis propria and is 0.9 cm from the deep margin. There is
a second papillary, friable mass measuring 1.7 x 1.6 cm, which is located in the
left anterior wall. On cut section the mass extends into but not through the
muscularis propria and is 1.0 cm from the deep margin. The surrounding bladder
mucosa is edematous, granular, pink-tan with a uniform, 1.7 -2.0 cm wall
thickness. Bilateral ureteral orifices, adjacent to the trigone, are identified
and probe patent.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Distal margin
C2: Prostate Apex
C3: Right ureter resection margin
C4: Left ureter resection margin
C5-C9: Bladder mass #1, right lateral wall
C10-C13: Bladder, mass #2, left anterior wall
C14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
C15: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
C16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall
C17: Right ureter orifice, trigone
C18: Left ureter orifice, trigone
C19-C21: Representative right lobe of prostate from apex to base
C22-C24: Representative left lobe of prostate from apex to base
C25: Bilateral seminal vesicles and vas deferens
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a segment of ureter with surrounding
periureteral tissues measuring 1.5 cm in length and 1.2 cm in diameter. There
is a surgical stitch on one end of the specimen designating margin which is
inked blue. The margin is shaved and submitted en face in cassette D1.
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a segment of ureter with surrounding
periureteral tissues measuring 1.2 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. There
is a surgical stitch on one end of the specimen designating margin which is
inked blue. The margin is shaved and submitted en face in cassette E1.
XXX
[] MD, PhD
IN 12/18/12
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy Mixed types >562
Primary Tumo. Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual, Synchronous Primary noted costate
Case is (circle
Reviewer Initia
Yes
No
QUALIFIED ✓ PISONALISED
Date Reviewed:
1/20/12
V4.00
TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form
Instructions: The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.
Tissue Source Site (TSS): .
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinica,
Diagnosis Information
Data Element
#
Pathologic Diagnosis
1
TSS Identifier:
Entry Alternatives
TSS Unique Patient Identifier:
_Completed Date:
Provided on Initial
Pathology Report
Histologic features of
the sample provided
2
for TCGA, as reflected
on the CQCF.
! nvasive urothelial carcinoma,
Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/histologic subtype(s) documented on
the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
with squamous (40%), microcystic this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
(15%), focal clear call feature (52) & focal
flandular differentation
Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
muscle invasive urothelial carcinoma Quality Control Form completed for this case.
Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
3
Provide the reason for
the discrepancy
between the pathology
report and the TCGA
Case Quality Control
Form
The tumor is all
muscle invasive werthelial
cascinoura, high grade,
with morphologically
Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
Variant
features,
Name of TSS Reviewing
4
Pathologist or
Biorepository Director
Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGA
I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.
'
TSS Reviewing Parhologist or Blorepository Director
Date
I acknowledge that the above information provided by my Institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.
Principal Investigator Signature
Date
