Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
J.
SENTINEL NODE #1:
-
- No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #2:
· No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
|- Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #3:
-
- No carcinoma seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).
|- Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
3/12/11
050.9
UUID:0D24479F-2F86-43AC-AAB1-83AAD99542C4
TCGA-EW-A1PF-01A-PR
Redacted
RIGHT BREAST, ONE STITCH SUPERIOR, TWO STITCHES LATERAL:
- INFILTRATING DUCTAL CARCINOMA, moderately differentiated, Nottingham grade 2 (2+3+2=7), 2.0 cm in greatest
dimension.
- Margins are free of invasive carcinoma
- Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.
Prior biopsy site
See tumor summary.
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU, high nuclear grade (DIN 3) with expansive comedo necrosis, solid type, present in 2/10
slides and representing less than 5% of submitted tissue.
- Margins free of DCIS.
NON-SENTINEL LYMPH NODE:
|- No carcinoma seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).
-
SENTINEL NODE #4:
· No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #5:
No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #6:
|- No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
|- Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #7:
No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
SENTINEL NODE #8:
-
· No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is pending.
TUMOR SUMMARY
Specimen:
- Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure:
Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling:
- Sentinel lymph node(s)
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
- Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen Integrity:
- Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterality:
-
- Right
Tumor Site: Invasive Carcinoma
-
- Upper outer quadrant
Central
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma
-
Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2.0 cm
- Additional dimensions: 2.0 x1.0 cm
Tumor Focality:
· Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:
- Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Skeletal muscle: Skeletal muscle is present and is free of carcinoma
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS):
DCIS IS PRESENT
Extensive intraductal component (EIC) negative
Size (Extent) of DCIS:
-Estimated size (extent) of DCIS (greatest dimension using gross and microscopic evaluation) is at
least: 5 cm
*Number of blocks with DCIS: 2
*Number of blocks examined: 10
· Architectural Patterns: Solid
- Nuclear Grade: Grade III (high)
-
Necrosis: Present, central (expansive "comedo" necrosis)
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ (LCIS)
Not identified
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma:
- Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise specified)
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: Score 2
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3
Mitotic Count: Score 2
Overall Grade: Grade 2: score 7
Margins:
|- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 6 mm (deep)
· Margins uninvolved by DCIS
Distance from closest margin: 14 mm (deep)
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (Neoadjuvant) therapy:
- In the Breast: No known presurgical therapy
In the Lymph Nodes: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified.
"Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 9
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 11
[Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and/or >200 cells): 0
[Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (≤0.2 mm and $200 cells): 0
*Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT1c NO Mx
Primary Tumor: pT1c
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor:
Performed on another specimen i
Progesterone Receptor:
Performed on another specimen.
Immunohistochemistry pending
; Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (≥1%)
); Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (≥1%)
Page 2 of 5
Her2:
- Performed on another specimen
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
AJCC classification (7th ed) (pTNM): pT1c N0 Mx
); Results: Negative
NOTE. Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11-EGFR. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin 
or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist a positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Addendum Diagnosis
A: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
B: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
C: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
F: Pending Immunohistochemistry (keratin).
G: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
H: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
1: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
J: Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
Intraoperative Consultation
A. Sentinel node #1, FS: No carcinoma seen
B. Sentinel node #2, FS: No carcinoma seen
C. Sentinel node #3, FS: No carcinoma seen
F. Sentinel node #4, FS: No carcinoma seen
G. Sentinel node #5, FS: No carcinoma seen
H. Sentinel node #6, FS: No carcinoma seen
1. Sentinel node #7, FS: No carcinoma seen
J. Sentinel node #8, FS: No carcinoma seen
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
Status: Signed Out
MD
'. IVTI
Page 3 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Clinical History:
None provided
Operation Performed
Right total mastectomy with sentinel node and possible axillary dissection
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Right breast carcinoma
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Sentinel node #1, FS
B: Sentinel node #2, FS
C: Sentinel node #3, FS
D: Right breast, one stitch superior, two stitches lateral
E: Non sentinel lymph node
F: Sentinel node # 4, FS
G: Sentinel node # 5, FS
H: Sentinel node #6, FS
1: Sentinel node #7, FS
J: Sentinel node #8, FS
Gross Description:
A.
B.
C.
д
Received fresh is a yellow-tan tissue, measuring 1.6 x 1.1 x 0.2 cm. Bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for
frozen section.
Received fresh is a tan-yellow tissue, 1.9 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. Bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen
section.
Received fresh are fragments of tan tissue, 3.1 x 2.1 x 0.3 cm. Sections are submitted as follows:
Possible lymph node, bisected, for frozen section
Remaining tissue in toto
1
Received in formalin is a total mastectomy weighing 450 grams, measuring 20.0 x 16.0 x 2.6 cm with a portion of skin
16.5 x 7.0 cm. The areola is 2.0 cm. In the upper outer portion of the breast 0.6 cm 
from the deep margin and 1.6 cm
posterior to the skin at approximately 11 o'clock is an ill-defined fibrotic area 2.0 x 
2.0 x 1.0 cm in dimension. No other
lesions are grossly identified. Resection margins inked in black. 
Stroma to fat ratio is 5 to 95%. Sections submitted 
as
follows:
Nipple (base of nipple) and tip in perpendicular sections
Composite section of the ill-defined mass in relation to the deep margin and to the anterior skin (Cassette 2
contains skin, cassette 3 contains deep margin)
Additional sections of lesion in relation to deep margin
Additional sections of lesion in relation to surrounding breast tissue
1
2&3
4&5
6&7
18
19
Section from upper inner quadrant
10
Lower inner quadrant
E.
Section from lower outer quadrant
F.
G.
H.
1.
Received in formalin are multiple fragments of adipose tissue, 1.6 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in
one cassette.
Received fresh is a tan-red tissue fragment, 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one
cassette for frozen section.
Received fresh is a tan tissue fragment, 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one
cassette for frozen section.
Received fresh is tan tissue fragment, 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette
for frozen section.
Received fresh is a tan tissue fragment, 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one
cassette for frozen section.
Page 4 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Received fresh is a tan tissue fragment, 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen
section.
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
THE QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Page 5 of 5
