Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initia
'RE
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
- w 10/21/11
UUID:13302EC6-6511-42FE-AA8B-C875B5384FFE
TCGA-A1-A0SK-01A-PR
Redacted
,C
801313
.3
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, neuroendocrine, large cell type 8013/3
Site: breast, NOS
050.9
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
lu 10/21/11
A. Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identified in one
lymph node (0/1).
B. Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identified in two
lymph nodes (0/2).
C. Right breast, new inferior margin, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identified.
D. Sentinel lymph node #3, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identified in one
lymph node (0/1).
E. Right breast, partial mastectomy:
1. Neuroendocrine carcinoma, large cell type, high grade, SBR grade 3, 3.8 cm
diameter, extending to deep resection margin and 0.1cm from anterior/superior
margin; see comment.
Page 1 of 6
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
2. Microcalcifications associated with benign breast tissue.
F. Right breast, new posterior margin, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identified.
Note: Immunohistochemical studies were necessary to evaluate this case and establish the correct
diagnosis. The following immunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated:
Keratin cocktail:Patchy positive.
CD56: Positive.
PAX-5: Positive.
LCA: Negative.
Chromogranin: negative.
Synaptophysin: negative.
E-Cadherin: negative.
The negative staining with LCA rules against a lymphold neoplasm. Negative E-Cadherin excludes a
ductal carcinoma. The positive staining with PAX-5, CD56 and patchy cytokeratin staining as well as
the morphology onH&E stain are compatible with a neuroendocrine carcinoma. Negative staining with
chromogranin and synaptophysin, although expected in this entity, does not exclude it.
Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, high grade.
- Invasive tumor size: 3.8 cm maximum diameter.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): 3.
Nuclear grade: 3 points.
Mitotic count: 2 points.
Tubule/papilla formation: 3 points.
Total points and overall grade = 8 points= Grade 3.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Absent.
- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
-
- Deep margin: Positive; (slide E12).
Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Close; (tumor is less than 0.1 cm away, on slide E7).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.25 cm away, on slide E15).
- Lymph node status:
-
Number of positive lymph nodes: 0.
- Total number sampled: 4.
AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N0MX.
An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HER2 was
performed on block E9.
The test for estrogen receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.
The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.
Result of HER2/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HER2/neu oncoprotein over-expression.
An immunohistochemical assay was performed using the CB11 monoclonal antibody to HER2/neu
oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 0 on a scale of 0-3 (HER2 test interpreted
Page 2 of 6
Surgical Pathology
Working Draft
by Dr.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein.
Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of Immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr
FS2 (B) Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
FS3 (C) Right breast, new inferior margin, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
FS4 (D) Sentinel lymph node #3, right axilla, biopsy: Rare atypical cells in subcapsular space. (Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is a
-year-old woman with post-operative diagnosis of breast cancer,
sentinel lymph node biopsy and right partial mastectomy.
who undergoes
Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in six parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.
sists of one soft tan-yellow fatty
Part A, additionally labeled "
tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is trimmed, and one candidate lymph
node is found. The lymph node is bisected. Touch preps and smear preps are made. The node is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1 and subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining
yellow fatty tissue is submitted in cassette A2.
Part B, additionally labeled "
nsists of one soft tan-yellow fatty
tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 0.6 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is trimmed, and one large lymph node is
found. The lymph node is bisected. Touch preps and smears are made. The node is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette B1. The remaining yellow fatty
tissue is submitted in cassette B2.
Part C, additionally labeled
"1
" consists of one
firm, unoriented, off-white/tan and yellow tissue fragment measuring 2.3 x 2 x 0.8 cm. The specimen
is bisected at the long axis and one-half is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 3, and subsequently
submitted in cassette C1. The remaining half is submitted in cassette C2.
Part D, additionally labeled ".
nsists of one soft and firm pink-red
unoriented tissue fragment measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and touch preps
and smears are made. The bisected node is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 4, and
subsequently submitted in cassette D1.
Part E, additionally labeled
onsists of an oriented, roughly ovoid
fragment of fibrofatty breast tissue containing a firm palpable mass. The specimen is oriented with
two surgical sutures, per the requisition sheet. The short suture is superior and the long suture is
lateral. Oriented as such, the specimen measures 5.7 cm from superior to inferior, 6 cm from medial
to lateral, and 3.6 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation,
with the anterior superior surface inked in blue, the anterior inferior surface inked in green, and the
posterior surface inked in black. The specimen has been previously incised, prior to receipt in
Pathology, and the sections removed from the aforementioned central mass. The specimen is serially
Page 3 of 6
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
sectioned in the sagittal plane into fifteen slices and numbered 1-15, medial to lateral. The medial
slice (slice 1) is 0.9 cm in thickness. The lateral slice (slice 15) is 0.9 cm in thickness. The remainder
of the slices averages 0.4 cm in thickness. Serial sectioning reveals a firm, tan-white, nodular lesion,
which spans serial slices 2-14. This multilobulated mass measures 3.8 cm from superior to inferior, 3
cm from anterior to posterior, measured in slice 7. The mass grossly approaches the posterior margin
in slices 6-8. The mass is 0.2 cm from the anterior superior margin in slice 4 and 0.8 cm from the
anterior margin in slice 7. The medial and lateral margins are grossly clear (>1 cm). Representative
sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette E1:
Cassette E2:
Cassette E3:
Cassette E4:
Cassette E5:
Cassette E6:
Cassette E7:
Cassette E8:
Cassette E9:
Cassette E10:
Cassette E11:
Cassette E12:
Cassette E13:
Cassette E14:
Cassette E15:
Cassette E16:
Cassette E17:
Cassette E18:
Mediat margin, slice 1 (representative perpendicular section).
Medial one-third, slice 2 (medial-most extent of lesion).
Superior posterior, slice 4.
Superior anterior, slice 4.
Anterior superior, slice 5.
Superior posterior, slice 5.
Anterior superior, slice 7.
Superior posterior, slice 7.
Anterior inferior, slice 7.
Inferior posterior, slice 7.
Anterior superior, slice 8.
Superior posterior, slice 8.
Anterior superior, slice 11.
Superior posterior, slice 11.
Anterior inferior, slice 11.
Inferior posterior, slice 11.
Superior half, slice 14.
Inferior half, slice 14.
Cassettes E19-E20: Medial portion of lateral margin, slice 15 (perpendicularly sectioned).
Part F, additionally labeled
Consists
of a grossly unremarkable fragment of fibrofatty breast tissue sutured to Telta and oriented by two
surgical sutures, per the specimen container labels. The short stitch is superior and the long stitch is
lateral. Oriented as such, the specimen measures 4.5 cm from superior to inferior, 3.7 cm from
medial to lateral, and 1.6 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen is inked for microscopic
evaluation, with the anterior superior surface inked in blue, the anterior inferior surface inked in
green, and the posterior surface inked in black. The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to
lateral into ten slices. These are numbered 1-10, from medial to lateral. The specimen is grossly
unremarkable on serially sectioning. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassette F1:
Slice 1.
Cassette F2:
Slice 2.
Cassette F3:
Slice 3.
Cassette F4:
Slice 4.
Cassette F5:
Slice 5.
Cassette F6:
Slice 6.
Cassette F7:
Slice 7.
Cassette F8:
Slice 8.
Cassette F9:
Cassette F10:
Fee Codes:
Slice 9.
Slice 10.
/Pathology Resident
'Pathologist
Signed:
Page 4 of 6
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Other Specimens
_Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Right chest wall tumor (fresh), B: Subclavian vein margin
Final Diagnosis
A. Right chest wall, tumor, excision: Metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine
carcinoma, 7.5 cm; see comment.
B. Subclavian vein, margin, biopsy: Segment of vein with chronic inflammation, no
tumor; see comment.
pecimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received:
Final Diagnosis
Review of slides from
Right breast, upper outer quadrant, biopsy: Neuroendocrine carcinoma,
large-cell type, high-grade; see comment.
Right anterior chest wall, fine-needle aspiration: Consistent with metastatic
neuroendocrine carcinoma; see comment.
Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Surgical scar right breast, B: New anterior superior margin right breast, C: New deep margin, D: New
anterior inferior margin
Final Diagnosis
A. Skin, right breast surgical scar, excision: Scar with mild chronic inflammation and
foreign body giant cell reaction, no tumor.
B. Right breast, new anterior superior margin, excision: Scar with chronic
inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.
C. Right breast, new deep margin, excision:
1. Scar with chronic inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.
2. Microcalcifications associated with benign ducts.
D. Right breast, new anterior inferior margin, excision:
1. Scar with chronic inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.
2. Microcalcifications associated with benign ducts.
Pan off
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
END OF REPORT
Page 6 of 6
