Patient:
DOB:
Ref#:
Date of Service:
Date Received:
Referring Physician:
Patient Location:
UUID:C2A0E948-289E-4E49-90C4-57CE4C4A95B3
TCGA-AC-A2QH-01A-PR
Outpatient
Room:
Bed:
A copy of this report will be faxed to:
Case #:
Date Reported:
Redacted
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REP Criteria
Diagnosis:
A. LEFT BREAST, TOTAL MASTECTOMY (PROPHYLACTIC):
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer hitials,
(QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
tw 9/3/14
Multiple intraductal papillomas with atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH).
- Radial scar, 8 mm in diameter.
- Fibrosis, cysts, apocrine metaplasia, and sclerosing adenosis.
- Skin with seborrheic keratosis.
- No invasive carcinoma is identified.
- Unremarkable intramammary lymph node.
B. & C) RIGHT BREAST AND AXILLARY LYMPH NODES, MODIFIED RADICAL
MASTECTOMY:
- Invasive high-grade sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma, with areas of
matrix-producing carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor measures 95 mm in diameter.
- Lymphatic invasion is identified near the periphery of the tumor.
- Resection margins are widely free of invasive carcinoma.
- Invasive carcinoma is present 40 mm from the closest margin (inferior),
and is at least 50 mm from all other margins.
- Twenty-two axillary lymph nodes, no tumor present.
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): High-grade sarcomatoid carcinoma, with areas of
matrix-producing carcinoma (subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma).
Primary tumor: pT3.
Regional lymph nodes: pNO.
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: IIB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Identified near periphery of tumor.
Margin status: Negative (R0).
Case #:
Printed:
Phone:
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
carcinoma, metaplastic NOS 8575/3
Site: breast, Nos.
050.9
hw,
9/3/11
*
ICD-0-3
Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
COMMENT: The majority of the invasive carcinoma is characterized by solid sheets of
high-grade malignant cells. In some areas, tumor cells have prominent spindle cell
morphology, whereas in other areas, the malignant cells retain vaguely epithelioid
(rounded) shapes, but have highly anaplastic nuclear features. Prominent tumor-
associated necrosis is present, and no discernable glandular differentiation is evident.
The morphologic appearance of these areas is compatible with designation as
sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma. Other areas of tumor contain malignant cells
present in close proximity to blue-gray chondromyxoid or hyaline matrix, compatible
with at least focal matrix-producing carcinoma, another subtype of metaplastic breast
carcinoma.
Immunohistochemical staining shows some scattered tumor cells to be positive for
p63 and CK5/6, in support of designation as metaplastic carcinoma. This is in
accordance with IHC staining performed on the previous biopsy
In addition,
some tumor cells are positive for smooth muscle actin, a feature not uncommon in
metaplastic sarcomatoid carcinoma, representing immunohistochemical evidence of
differentiation towards a myoepithelial phenotype. Staining for
are negative in tumor cells.
and S100
Focally, the invasive carcinoma is seen in association with a fibroepithelial neoplasm, a
portion of which appears to be necrotic. The stroma of the fibroepithelial neoplasm
does not show striking hypercellularity, except for a few areas in which there is
granulation tissue. The lack of stromal cellularity within this lesion argues that the
fibroepithelial neoplasm is best regarded as fibroadenoma, even though the lesion has
some architectural features of phyllodes tumor. In some areas, high-grade malignant
cells are seen to line the ducts/clefts of the fibroadenoma, suggesting that the
carcinoma is invading into the fibroadenoma. Another possibility is that the carcinoma
has arisen out of the epithelial component of the fibroadenoma, which is considered
less likely.
Sarcomatoid carcinomas are highly malignant tumors with capability to metastasize to
distant sites (hematogenous metastasis to sites such as liver, lung, brain, etc.), even
though some studies have shown that metastasis to axillary lymph nodes are
significantly less frequent than in more typical cases of breast carcinoma (i.e. invasive
Case #:
Printed:
Phone:
Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ductal carcinoma, NOS). Dr. .
Dr.
have reviewed
representative slides from this case, and concur with the diagnosis of metaplastic
breast carcinoma.
Case #:
Printed:
Pathology Consultation Report
Page 3
Phone:
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed., and CAP protocol, Oct 2009). This staging also incorporates:
Previous biopsy:
Breast profile.
Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen laterality:
Specimen size (other than mastectomy):
INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:
Invasive tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Total breast, axillary lymph nodes, and
contralateral breast.
Modified radical mastectomy and contralateral
prophylactic mastectomy.
Axillary dissection.
Single intact specimen.
Right.
26 x 16 x 6.5 cm.
95 mm.
Upper outer quadrant.
Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
Sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma, with areas
of matrix producing carcinoma.
3 (high-grade).
Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
3 of 3.
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
3 of 3.
Mitotic count for Nottingham:
3 of 3.
Mitotic count:
Other Grading System:
Lymphatic invasion:
MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:
IN-SITU CARCINOMA (DCIS) FEATURES:
Greater than 20 mitosis per 10 high power fields.
N/A.
Not identified.
40 mm.
Inferior.
Invasive and in situ carcinoma are present at
least 50 mm from all other margins.
DCIS not present
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LCIS):
Absent.
Skin:
Unremarkable.
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:
Unremarkable.
Not present.
INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (PT):
Regional lymph nodes (PN):
Distant metastasis (PM):
PT3.
PNO.
PMX.
RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:
Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:
Ki-67 proliferative index:
ProPath, CM11-1333
Negative (0% positive cells).
Negative (0% positive cells).
Not overexpressed (IHC score 0).
50% positive cells.
Signed by
Source of Specimen:
A. Left Breast total mastectomy
B. Right Breast total mastectomy
C. Additional Axillary Contents
Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Cancer, female breast, upper-outer
Gross Description:
A. The specimen is labeled left simple mastectomy and is received in formalin. It consists of a
mastectomy specimen which weighs 1430 grams. A white suture at one end of the skin ellipse designates
the lateral portion of the excision. With this orientation the specimen measures 26 cm from medial to
lateral, 17.5 cm from superior to inferior, and is up to 6 cm from superficial to deep. There is an overlying
broad ellipse of tan-white skin which measures 26 x 15 cm. In the central slightly medial portion of the
skin there is a 4 cm areola with a protuberant 1.2 cm nipple. The medial-inferior skin displays a 0.7 cm
plaque-like brown skin lesion. No other skin lesions are present. The anterior-superior margin is inked blue,
the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists of predominantly
smooth fascial tissue, is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal coarsely
lobulated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white fibrous parenchyma. The fibrous parenchyma contains
multiple punctate areas of fine nodularity throughout the breast with scattered blue-dome cysts. There are
no areas which have a stellate or retracted appearance. There are no lymph nodes identified in the
Case #:
Printed:
Phone:
Page 5
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #:
:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
axillary portion of the tissue. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
A1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
A2) inferior skin lesion,
A3) representative breast tissue upper-inner quadrant,
A4) representative breast tissue lower-inner quadrant,
A5) representative breast tissue upper-outer quadrant,
A6) representative breast tissue lower-outer quadrant,
A7) representative tissue central breast including representative deep margin
Following review of the initial slides, additional representative sections from the central portion of the
breast tissue are submitted from medial to lateral in cassettes A8-A12. A lymph node and 
random 
sections
of breast tissue are submitted in cassette A13.
B. The specimen is labeled right modified radical mastectomy and is received without fixative. It consists
of a mastectomy specimen which weighs 1681 grams. A suture marks the axillary 
tissue. With this
orientation the breast measures 26 cm from medial to lateral, 16 cm from superior 
to inferior, and 
6.5 cm
from superficial to deep. The axillary portion measures 9 x 7 x 3 cm. The breast has an overlying 
broad
ellipse of tan skin measuring 25 x 16 cm. There is a medial and slightly inferiorly located poorly
delineated 4 cm areola with a protuberant 1.2 cm nipple. The central skin surface bulges outward in the
periareolar area over a distance approximately 8 cm. The skin is otherwise tan-
white and unremarkable
.
Sections of the bulging anterior skin reveal a partially hemorrhagic cavitary lesion which 
measures 7 cm
from medial to lateral, cm from superior to inferior, and up to 3.5 cm from superficial to deep
. The
cavitary space is filled with gray-tan tissue which has a finely lobulated appearance. Just inferior 
to 
the
cavitary space along the lateral edge there is creamy tan-white moderately firm 
fibrous breast
parenchyma. Representative tissue obtained for research purposes. Following fixation 
the 
anterior-
superior margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior 
margin, 
which
consists predominantly of smooth fascial tissue, is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned 
from the
posterior surface at close intervals to reveal the cavitary lesion described above. The breast parenchyma
is otherwise tan-white and has fine palpable nodularity most notable in the lower-inner quadrant
. The
creamy tan-white tissue at the posterior edge of the hemorrhagic lesion is 5 cm from the closest superior
margin, 4 cm from the closest inferior margin, 5.5 cm from the closest deep margin, 7.5 cm 
from the
closest medial margin, and 13 cm from the closest lateral margin. At its greatest dimension 
which is
superior-inferior the creamy white tissue at the posterior edge of the cavitary lesion measures 
6.5 
cm.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
B1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
B2) representative skin with closest approach of hemorrhagic cavitary lesion,
B3) medial edge of hemorrhagic lesion,
B4-B5) sections cavitary lesion progressing centrally,
B6-B8) central-posterior portion of cavitary lesion with firm white tissue,
B9-B10) representative sections from lateral portion of hemorrhagic lesion,
B11) possible intramammary node 2.5 cm lateral to hemorrhagic lesion,
B12) representative breast tissue upper-inner quadrant (medial to hemorrhagic lesion),
B13) representative tissue lower-inner quadrant of breast (medial to hemorrhagic lesion),
Case #:
Printed:
Pathology Consultation Report
Phone:
Page 6
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
B14) representative breast tissue upper-outer quadrant (lateral to hemorrhagic lesion),
B15) representative breast tissue lower-outer quadrant (lateral to hemorrhagic lesion),
B16) deep surgical margin closest to posterior edge of cavitary lesion,
B17-B19) nodal tissue trimmed from largest predominantly fatty (3.9 cm) node,
B20-B21) second largest node serially sectioned,
B22) single node serially sectioned,
B23) two nodes bivalved (one inked),
B24) two node, one inked and trisected, one trisected,
B25) four possible nodes intact,
B26) two nodes bivalved (one inked),
B27) smaller possible nodes intact.
Following review of the initially submitted sections, additional sections of the tumor are submitted as
follows:
B28-B32) polypoid necrotic appearing portion of tumor,
B33) breast tissue surrounding tumor,
B34-B35) representative sections of solid tan portion of tumor. (
C. The specimen is labeled additional axillary contents right axilla and is received in formalin. It consists
of a 1.8 cm fragment of fibrofatty tissue. On dissection there are two intact nodes, the larger node
measuring 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm and the smaller node 0.6 cm in maximum dimension. The larger node is
sectioned and submitted in cassette C1. The smaller node is bivalved and submitted in cassette C2. (DS)
Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. IHC stains: p63, CK5/6, SMA,
S100. See comment for staining results.
Appropriate positive and negative controls reviewed.
C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
Case #::
Printed:
Pathology Consultation Report
Page 7
Phone
REPRINT: Orig. printing on
