UUID:A69288AE-8585-4041-A601-A7ACDBCBBEB2
TCGA-ZF-A9R0-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD03
SPECIMEN
A. Right side lymph node
B. Right ureteric resection margin
C. Bladder and prostate
CLINICAL DETAILS
Invasive bladder cancer.
MACROSCOPY
A. Fat and lymph node measuring 45 x 20 x 15 mm.
=
1-3 ?One lymph node in each
B.
A piece of tube measuring 3 mm.
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
Site: Bladder, posterior wall
425/2/14
C. Bladder and prostate measuring 130 x 80 x 60 mm. There is a hugh tumour
occupying most of the bladder wall. The tumour is centred posterior and extends
bilaterally to the lateral wall. The tumour invades through the bladder wall
with extensive peritoneal involvement. The tumour is within 1 mm of the left
lateral circumferential resection margin (closest). There is a massive tumour
superior bulging into the peritoneum. The maximum tumour dimension is 130 mm.
The tumour abuts the prostate but does not appear to involve the prostate.
The prostate shows a minor degree of nodular hyperplasia.
=
1 = Urethral distal resection margin, 2 = Left prostate, 3 = Right prostate, 4
Right prostate, 5 = Posterior urethral plus trigone, 6 = Tumour edge of
prostate, 7-8 = Anterior bladder wall, 9 = Left lateral wall circumferential
resection margin, 10 = Posterior wall with peritoneum involvement, 11 = Right
lateral wall circumferential resection margin, dome and peritoneum, 12 = ? Left
ureter, 13 = ? Right ureter plus vas, 14 = Tumour
MICROSCOPY
A. One lymph node with reactive changes and no tumour; most of the sample is
fat.
B. This sample of ureter does not have any visible urothelium.
C. The tumour identified is poorly differentiated grade 3 urothelial
carcinoma. Tumour invades the full thickness of the bladder wall and beyond
into adipose tissue and the peritoneal surface. The tumour is also present at
the surgical resection margin on the right lateral aspect. Though the tumour
involves the trigone there is no invasion of the prostate gland.
Background urothelium is normal.
The prostate shows nodular hyperplasia and focal necrosis with granulomatous
response.
The samples taken from the ureterics do not show urothelium.
Summary:
Cystoprostatectomy specimen; High grade infiltrating urothelial carcinoma G3
pT3b pN0 R1.
Though recorded as pN0, only one small node has been sampled and no formal
dissection presented for examination.
0674
Pathologists
CONSULTANT
Criteria
1 1/10/14
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIE / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
