UUID:50782829-3586-4A61-A3CE-F105A31EDB42
TCGA-A7-A13G-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma - Infiltrating Duct, Nos
850013
Site: breast, Nos C50.9
Mu
11/12/10
SPECIMEN
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast, silk suture on superior breast
CLINICAL NOTES
Left breast cancer.
-year-old
female with grade 1 IDC.
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:
CLINICAL HISTORY:
POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node negative for metastatic disease.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Part A is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"left axillary sentinel node". It consists of three
portions of adipose tissue measuring 2.3 x 2.2 x 1 cm in aggregate.
Within the fat a single fatty tan lymph node is found measuring 1.7
x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The node is bisected and all submitted in one
block.
B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left
breast" is a 19.5 cm (medial to lateral) x 13.8 cm
(superior to inferior) x 2 cm (anterior to posterior) diffusely
cauterized soft, lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose
tissue in keeping with breast designated as left per requisition
slip and container and oriented by a single suture as stated
previously. There is a 14.5 cm (medial to lateral) × 4.3 cm
(superior to inferior) wrinkled white skin ellipse with diffuse
red-purple ecchymosis and a central, slightly flattened, 1.7 x 1.7 x
0.4 cm nipple along the anterior aspect. The intact deep margin is
inked black and the specimen is sectioned. There is a moderately
well circumscribed, 2.8 cm (medial to lateral) x 1.8 cm (superior to
inferior) x 1.6 cm (anterior to posterior) rubbery tan-white lesion
at the junction of the lower inner and outer quadrants. The lesion
focally extends to within 0.6 cm of the inked deep margin and is 1
cm from the anterior surface (subsequently inked blue). A few
cylindrical firm tan-white structures in keeping with site of prior
needle core biopsy are evident. A portion of tumor and a portion of
normal breast are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The cut surfaces throughout the remainder of the specimen consist
predominantly of glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue
with a minimal amount of interspersed delicate tan-white fibrous
tissue. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified.
Representative sections are submitted in twelve blocks as labeled.
RS-12.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-3 Tumor to inked deep margin; 4 tumor to
anterior surface; 5,6 tumor to adjacent parenchyma; 7 - random
upper outer quadrant;
8 - upper-inner quadrant; 9 lower inner quadrant; 10 - lower-outer
quadrant; 11 - junction of the four quadrants; 12 - nipple.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. This single lymph node is examined microscopically in
its entirety and at multiple levels. It is negative for
metastatic disease, 0/1.
B. This simple mastectomy specimen contains a central,
fairly well demarcated infiltrating low grade ductal
carcinoma. No definite ductal carcinoma in situ is present.
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma.
Histologic grade: Well differentiated
Overall grade: Elston SBR grade 1
Architectural score: 1
Nuclear score: 1-2
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT): The tumor measures 2.8 cm., pT2
Specimen margins: Negative
Vessel invasion: Negative
Calcification: Present
Nipple (Paget's): Negative for Paget's disease.
Invasion of skin or chest wall:
Negative.
Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes are present
including cysts, apocrine metaplasia, ductal hyperplasia,
intraductal papillomatosis, rare focus of atypical ductal
hyperplasia and rare focus of atypical lobular hyperplasia.
fibroadenoma is also noted.
A 1 cm.
Lymph nodes: As per part A, a single lymph node is negative for
metastatic disease. (pN0)
Distant metastasis (PM): Cannot be assessed.
Prognostic markers: Previously performed.
14, 4x2
DIAGNOSIS
A.
Left axillary sentinel node, excision
negative for metastatic disease.
Single lymph node
B. Left breast, simple mastectomy - Breast with infiltrating ductal
carcinoma, Elston SBR grade 1. Margins of resection, skin and
nipple negative for tumor. Fibrocystic changes, rare
atypical ductal hyperplasia and rare atypical lobular
hyperplasia also present. A 1 cm. fibroadenoma is noted.
DIAGNOSIS
M.D. (Electronic Signature)
Criteria
Diagnosis Liscrepancy
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Dual Synchronous Phiary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
QUALIFIED
☐ EQUAL DE
Ute Revieweds
