UUID:5A6AB084-683E-4C9F-9DD6-E055376EF290
TCGA-UY-A78K-01A-PR
Redacted
B. Left ureteral margin (FS)
SOURCE:
A. Right ureteral margin (FS)
C.
Left pelvic lymph nodes
D.
Bladder, resection, partial or total
E. Anterior peri-vesicular fat
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial
papellary 8/30/3
Site Bladder NOS
F. Superior common iliac artery lymph nodes (FS)
Additional left pelvic nodes
0679
JW 8/20/13
G.
H.
Left common iliac lymph nodes
I.
J.
K.
Right pelvic lymph nodes
Final left ureteral margin
Final right ureteral margin
DIAGNOSIS:
A.
Right ureteral margin, excision:
evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma.
B.
Left ureteral margin, excision:
evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma.
C.
Sections of ureter with no
Sections of ureter with no
Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision: Urothelial carcinoma,
metastatic to one regional lymph node, with extracapsular extension
(1/1).
D.
Bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles, radical
cystoprostatectomy:
Bladder:
-Invasive urothelial carcinoma, high grade (WHO grade
3/3), 0.4 cm in diameter.
-Ureteral and urethral margins negative for tumor.
-Polypoid cystitis.
-Non specific granulomatous inflammation.
See comment.
Prostate:
-Urothelial carcinoma, metastatic.
-Benign nodular hyperplasia.
-Chronic inflammation.
Seminal vesicles: No evidence of carcinoma.
E.
tissue.
F.
Anterior perivesicular fat, excision: Mature fibroadipose
Superior common iliac artery lymph nodes, excision: Urothelial
carcinoma metastatic to two of two regional lymph nodes (2/2).
G.
Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision: Thirteen regional lymph nodes
with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/13)
H.
Left common iliac lymph nodes, excision: Urothelial carcinoma
metastatic to three of five regional lymph nodes (3/5).
I.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision: Urothelial carcinoma
metastatic to three of nine regional lymph nodes (3/9).
J.
Final left ureteral margin, excision: Ureter with no evidence of
dysplasia or carcinoma.
K.
Final right ureteral margin, excision:
high grade, no carcinoma identified.
Urothelial dysplasia,
CLINICAL DATA:
The patient is a
-year-old man with invasive high grade bladder cancer
diagnosed on biopsy. He undergoes radical prostatectomy and cystectomy, with
biopsies for frozen section.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in eleven parts, each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number.
Part A is received fresh and is additionally labeled "#2 right ureteral
margin." It consists of one soft, pink-tan, irregular, unoriented tissue
fragment, measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm, that is inked at one end. The specimen
is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS1, with the frozen
section remnant submitted in cassette Al.
Part B is received fresh and is additionally labeled "#3 left ureteral margin."
It consists of one soft, pink-tan, irregular, unoriented tissue fragment,
measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm, that is inked at one end. The specimen is
entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS2, with the frozen section
remnant submitted in cassette Bl.
"T
Part C is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "#1. Left pelvic
lymph nodes. It consists of a single piece of yellow-red, fibrofatty soft
tissue, measuring 3 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely
submitted in cassettes C1 and C2.
Part D, additionally labeled "#4 bladder," consists of a radical
cystoprostatectomy, including bladder, ureters, prostate and seminal vesicles.
The bladder measures 18 x 12 x 4.5 cm, the wall averages 2.5 cm in thickness.
The bladder mucosa is pale tan and shows two ulcerations, one in the trigone
and one in the dome measuring, respectively, 1.5 and 1 cm in diameter, the
bladder wall underlying these areas is indurated and dusky. The surrounding
uninvolved mucosa is mostly polypoid. Grossly no tumors are identified in the
mucosa and bladder wall. The ureters are patent. The prostate measures 4.5 x 4
x 2.5 cm, the cut surface reveals nodularity of both lobes, no tumor is
identified grossly. The right ureter measures 8.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter. The left ureter measures 10 cmin length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The
urethra measures 4.5 cm in length. The right seminal vesicle measures 1 cm x
0.5 cm in average diameter. The left seminal vesicle measures 2 cm x 0.5 cm in
average diameter. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black,
anterior-right is inked green, and anterior-left is inked blue. Representative
sections are submitted as follows: Cassette D1:
Left ureteral margin,
inked yellow. Cassette D2:
Right ureteral margin, inked yellow.
Cassettes D3-D4: Urethral margin from base of prostate. Cassette D5-9:
Left prostate. Cassette D11:
Right prostate.
Left
Trigone. Cassette D10:
prostate plus seminal vesicle. Cassette D12:
Cassette D13:
Right prostate plus seminal vesicle. Cassettes D14-D17:
Trigone ulceration. Cassette
Nodular area of right
Cassettes D26-28:
Potential lymph nodes. Cassettes D18-21:
Dome ulceration.
Note: urethra is included in D27-28, which contain a bisected
D22-24
prostate.
piece.
Part E is additionally labeled "#5 anterior peri-vesical fat." It consists of
two pieces of yellow-red fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in
aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette El.
Part F is received fresh and is additionally labeled "#8 superior common iliac
artery lymph nodes." It consists of two soft, pink-tan, irregular, unoriented
tissue fragments, measuring 4.0 × 2.0 x 0.6 cm in aggregate. A representative
section is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS3. with the frozen
section remnant submitted in cassette Fl. The remainder of the specimen is
serially sectioned and submitted in cassette F2.
Part G, additionally labeled "6 - additional left pelvic lymph nodes," consists
4.0 x 2.5
of multiple red-yellow fragments of soft, fatty tissue, measuring
-
× 0.5 cm in aggregate. The largest portion measures 7.0 x 3.0 x 0.5 cm.
This latter specimen is cut into thirds. The small fragments are submitted as
cassettes G1-G3, and the largest fragment cut into thirds is submitted as
cassettes G4-G6.
-
It
Part H is additionally labeled "7 left common iliac lymph nodes."
consists of three portions of red-yellow, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1.5 ×
0.5 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette H1.
Part I, additionally labeled "9 right pelvic lymph nodes," consists of
multiple fragments of red-yellow, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 6.0 x 4.0 x 0.9
cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassettes Il-15.
Part J, additionally labeled "10 - final left ureteral margin," consists of a
single portion of red-yellow, tubular tissue, measuring 4.0 x 0.8 cm in
diameter, with a staple. The staple is removed, and a cross section from the
stapled end is submitted as cassette Jl. A cross sections from the unstapled
side is submitted in cassette J2.
Part K, additionally labeled "11 final right ureteral margin," consists of
two pieces of red-yellow, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.5 cm in
aggregate, with an attached staple. The staple is removed, and the adjacent
cross section is submitted in cassette Kl. A representative cross section of
the unstapled portion as well as a sample of white-yellow soft tissue are
submitted in cassette K2.
COMMENTS:
Tumor type:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment 1.
Urothelial carcinoma, papillary
with squamoid features. 2. Tumor grade: Grade 3/3 (2003 WHO
classification). 3. Tumor size: 0.4 cm (D8). 4. Extent of tumor in
bladder: 0.4 cm focus of invasive tumor in outer half of the muscularis
5.
propria (D8).
Lymphatic/vascular invasion:
6.
Not present.
Epithelial
abnormalities in bladder: Polypoid cystitis and nonspecific granulomatous
inflammation (post transurethral resection of bladder tumor) see note below.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: Prostate. 8.
Surgical margins: Urethral margin: Negative. Right ureter margin: High grade
urothelial dysplasia. Left ureter margin: Negative. Perivesical margin:
Negative. 9. Lymph nodes:
Nine of 30 lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor
(9/30); the largest metastatic deposit measures 2.0 cm in greatest dimension
(C2) ;
there is focal extranodal tumor growth (C1).
11. AJCC/UICC stage: PT2bN2MX.
The bladder mucosa, submucosa and muscularis propria of the dome and trigone
show an intense nonspecific granulomatous inflammatory reaction with foreign
body giant cells and focal necrotizing palisading granulomas (CB). These
findings are consistent with the patient's recent history of transurethral
resection of his bladder tumor, at these sites. The bladder mucosa is
otherwise benign with polypoid type chronic inflammation and focal hyperplasia,
with no residual carcinoma or dysplasia. There is a microscopic focus of high
grade urothelial carcinoma located in the outer half of the muscularis propria
of the trigone. A 0.3 cm focus of high grade urothelial carcinoma is present
in the periurethral prostate.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
w 8/9/13 YO
Yes
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initals
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
No
☑
.9.2013
