UUID:C8C49D41-AA66-435B-9312-FAD8E2DC3305
TCGA-A7-A4SE-01A-PR
Redacted
Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Breast, left, segmental mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma,
grade 3, size 2.8 cm in greatest dimension; negative margins of
excision.
B. Sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).
C. Sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: One negative lymph node (0/1).
D. Breast, medial to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative for
malignancy or atypia.
E. Breast, inferior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.
F. Breast, posterior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy:
muscle; negative for malignancy or atypia.
Skeletal
G. Breast, lateral to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.
H. Breast, superior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.
Microscopic Description:
Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type:
Ductal
Histologic grade: 3
ICD-0-3
Overall grade: 9/9
Architectural score: 3
carcinoma, infiltrating duct, Nos.
Site: breast, NoS 050.9
850013
Nuclear score: 3
3
Mitotic score:
Greatest dimension (PT): 2.8 cm
Specimen margins: Negative
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Present
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Histologic pattern:
Nuclear grade: 3
Solid
Central Necrosis: Present
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): 18
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent):
Specimen margins: Negative
Calcification:
Negative
Description of non-tumorous breast:
Absent
Fibrocystic changes, with ductal
hyperplasia of usual type, a minute fibroadenoma, and apocrine
metaplasia, with calcification.
Comments: Sentinel lymph nodes negative, confirmed by negative
cytokeratin immunostaining of blocks BFS1 and CFS2. Cytokeratin
staining was also performed on one block from part E, to exclude
involvement by carcinoma. Prior biopsy site identified. Extensive
central tumor necrosis is present.
Prognostic markers: See core biopsy report,
4x8, 14x2, 15x2, 20x3
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
سلام
10/27/12
Specimen
A. Left Breast
B. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #1, hot, blue,
C. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #2, not hot, not blue, but
palpable
D. Medial to segmental mastectomy left breast
E. Inferior to segmental mastectomy left breast
F. Posterior to segmental mastectomy left breast
G. Lateral to segmental mastectomy left breast
H. Superior to segmental mastectomy left breast
Clinical Information
Left breast cancer
Intraoperative Consultation
B) Left axillary sentinel node #1: Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).
C) Left axillary sentinel node #2, biopsy: One negative lymph node
(0/1).
Gross Description
A. Received unfixed for tissue procurement, labeled left breast
segmental mastectomy single long lateral, double long anterior, is
a 100 gram breast segmental excision that is 9 cm from anterior to
posterior, 7.5 cm medial to lateral, and 3 cm from superior to
inferior. The superior surface is inked black, and a section is
submitted for tissue procurement as requested. An additional
section of uninvolved fatty tissue is submitted from the posterior
The
aspect, for procurement. Additional sections after fixation.
superior surface is inked black, medial green, lateral yellow,
inferior blue. There is a tan, firm, lobulated mass lesion in the
mid-portion of the specimen, 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm. This is 3 mm from
the green-inked medial margin (closest margin). All other margins
are grossly greater than 1 cm from the mass. Representative
sections: 1 Anterior margin, 2 adjacent section with margin, 3/4/5
contiguous tumor, possible biopsy cavity in 5, 6/7/8 contiguous,
9-10 random medial and lateral, possible close margin, 11-14
additional posterior sections, with last section = posterior
margin.
B. Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled left axillary
sentinel node #231, are 2 adjacent and attached lymph nodes, 0.9 cm
in greatest dimension each, bisected and entirely submitted in
blocks B1 and B2.
C. Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled left axillary
sentinel node #2, is a single lymph node, 1.4 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm,
bisected and entirely submitted in 2 blocks.
D. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "medial
to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 5.2 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm yellow
lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture designating the
new medial border. The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with minimal
fibrous tissue present. No discrete residual tumor is grossly
identified. The specimen is entirely submitted labeled 1 through
10.
E. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"inferior to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 2.7 x 2.2
cm yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture
designating new inferior border. The surface is inked and the
specimen is sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with
minimal fibrous tissue present. No residual tumor is grossly
identified. The specimen is entirely submitted labeled 1 through 9.
F. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"posterior to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 3.2 x 2.5 x
1.0 cm yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which is partially
covered with 
skeletal muscle. There is a suture designating the new
posterior margin. 
The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show a yellow lobular fatty cut surface with scanty
fibrous tissue 
present. The specimen is entirely submitted in 5
cassettes.
G. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "lateral
to 
segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm yellow
lobular 
fatty tissue fragment. There is a suture designating the
new lateral 
border. The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with minimal
fibrous 
tissue present. No residual tumor is grossly identified.
The specimen 
is entirely submitted in 9 cassettes.
H. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"
superior segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm
yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture designating
the new superior 
border. This is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with scanty
fibrous tissue 
present. The specimen is entirely submitted in 4
cassettes.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary an.or site Dircrepancy
Hiscrepancy
ancy history
Yes
No')
Rated
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
10/2017/12
