Patient Name
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:
Soc. Sec. #:
Physician(s):
UUID:A3441B74-07BB-4A9F-9B66-0071AD46CB21
TCGA-UY-A80C-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Visit #:
Sex:
Location:
Male
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Accession #:
Service Date:
Received:
Client:
70003
Carcinoma, urothelial No 58120/3
666F
Site: Bladder NOS C629
A. Right ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
B.
Left ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
C.
1.
2.
Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
Path
Bladder wall NOS C679
8601/23/14
Bladder: Invasive urothelial carcinoma with extravesical extension.
Prostate and seminal vesicles: Invasive urothelial carcinoma by direct
extension.
3. No tumor in two lymph nodes (0/2).
D.
Perivesical fat, biopsy: No tumor.
E.
F.
Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/10).
Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma in one of eleven lymph
nodes (1/11).
G.
Urethra, biopsy: No tumor.
H.
Final left ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
I.
Final right ureter, biopsy: No tumor.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma.
2. Tumor grade: High grade.
3. Tumor size: 4.5 cm.
4. Extent of tumor in bladder: Diffusely involves bilateral anterior and posterior walls.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not seen.
6. Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: None.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: Extends into prostate and seminal vesicles (slide
C14).
8. Surgical margins:
Urethral margin: Negative.
Right ureter margin: Negative.
Left ureter margin: Negative.
Perivesical margin: Negative but close (<1 mm to right inferior margin, Slides C1 and C13).
9. Lymph nodes: One of twenty-three (1/23) lymph nodes contains metastatic tumor; the largest
metastatic deposit measures 0.3 cm in greatest dimension; there is no extranodal tumor growth.
10. Other pathologic findings in bladder: None.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pT4aN1Mx.
12. Additional comments: There is perineural invasion on Slide C11. Select slides were shown at the
departmental
and the faculty in attendance concurred with the above diagnoses.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Right ureter (FS)
B:Left ureter (FS)
C:Bladder and prostate (FS)
D:Perivesical fat
E: Left pelvic lymph nodes
F:Right pelvic lymph node
G:Urethra
H:Final left ureter
I: Final right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1
(A) Ureter, right, biopsy: No tumor seen.
FS2
FS3
(B) Ureter, left, biopsy: No tumor seen.
(C) Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy: High-grade invasive urothelial carcinoma. (Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is a
man with a malignant neoplasm of the bladder. He undergoes a radical
cystoprostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.
Gross Description
The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Part A is received fresh and is additionally labeled "right ureter." It consists of a single unoriented, irregular
fragment of pink-tan, soft tissue, measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as FS1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.
Part B is received fresh and is additionally labeled "left ureter." It consists of a single unoriented, irregular
fragment of pink-tan, soft tissue, measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as FS2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette B1.
Part C is received fresh and is additionally labeled "4 - bladder." It consists of a bladder with a small
portion of prostate, weighing 259 gm and measuring 13.6 cm from superior to inferior, 12.1 cm from right
to left, and 4.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The bladder itself measures 6.3 cm from superior to inferior,
5.5 from right to left, and 5.5 from anterior to posterior. The specimen is inked as follows: green ink
anterior right, blue ink anterior left, and black ink posterior. The bladder is opened from the anterior
aspect to reveal a fungating, tan-white tumor in the inferior left and right bladder wall; the tumor measures
4.2 cm from superior to inferior, 4.5 cm from right to left, and 1.8 cm from anterior to posterior. It
approaches the deep margin within 0.5 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1:
о
Cassettes C2-C3:
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Cassette C11:
Cassette C12:
Cassette C13:
Cassette C14:
Cassettes C15-C16:
Remnant tissue from frozen section (FS3).
Tumor in relationship to its closest approximation to the inferior, black-inked margin
(0.9 cm).
Junction with normal mucosa.
Right anterior.
Right wall.
Right anterior.
Left wall.
Trigone/inferior bladder with base of prostate.
Left wall with tumor approaching the inked margin within 0.3 cm grossly.
Right inferior.
Left seminal vesicle.
Right inferior edge, <1 mm from green-inked margin.
Right seminal vesicle.
Candidate lymph nodes.
Part D is additionally labeled "peripelvic fat." It consists of two unoriented, irregularly shaped fragments of
tan-yellow fibrofatty tissue, measuring 2.2 x 1.3 x 0.3 cm and 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely
submitted in cassettes D1 and D2.
Part E is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "3) Left pelvic lymph node." It consists of an
irregularly shaped, unoriented fibrofatty lymph node packet, measuring 1.5 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm. The specimen
is entirely submitted in cassettes El through E4, with one bisected lymph node inked in blue in cassette
El.
Part F is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node." It consists of multiple
unoriented, irregularly shaped fragments of fibrofatty lymph node packet, measuring 3.2 x 3.6 x 2.1 cm in
aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes F1 through F4, with F1 representing a bisected,
blue-inked lymph node.
Part G is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "urethra-inked end is distal." It consists of a
segment of urethra, measuring 5.7 cm in length and with a diameter ranging between 1.1 cm and 1.5 cm,
with blue ink at one end. The distal half is inked in blue, and the proximal half is inked in yellow.
Representative sections from 1-cm intervals are submitted in cassettes G1 through G4 as follows:
Cassette G1:
Distal blue-inked margin.
Cassette G2:
Cassette G3:
Cassette G4:
Representative sections from distal half.
Representative sections from proximal half.
Yellow-inked proximal resection edge.
Part H is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "8) Final left ureter." It consists of a single
unoriented, irregularly shaped fragment of ureter with attached fibrofatty tissue. The tan-white ureter
measures 0.5 cm in diameter and 0.6 cm in length. The overall dimensions of the specimen with the
attached fibrofatty tissue is 2.5 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is inked in blue, the ureter is bisected and is
submitted in cassette H1, and the remainder of the tissue is entirely submitted in cassette H2.
Part 1 is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "#9 final right ureter." It consists of a single
unoriented, irregularly shaped fragment of tan-white ureter, measuring 0.3 cm in diameter and 0.6 cm.
The overall dimensions of the specimen with attached fibrofatty tissue is 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen
is inked in blue, sectioned, and entirely submitted in cassette 11.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Pathology Resident
Electronically signed out on
/Pathologist
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
w 11/19/13
Yes
Ne
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Margnancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer niliais
QUAUNED
D-SQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: ✓
+9/2013
