UUID:DC81B464-642D-444E-A110-D11E687B36C1
TCGA-FD-A3B7-01A-PR
Redacted
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
-
-
-
-
-
Right ureter distal margin; excision:
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Left distal ureter; excision:
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle:
Revi
ICD-0-3
Yes
No
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
10 10/21/11
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nus 8/20/3
Path - site: bladder, wall Nos
Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Nine lymph nodes, no tumor (0/9).
Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Seven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/7).
Left ureter; excision:
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
0679
CQCF: bladder, wall, lateral 0.67.2
نسرا
10/21/11
Urinary bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy:
Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, with markedly
pleomorphic and poorly differentiated areas, see pathologic parameters.
Incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate, see pathologic parameters.
-
G.
-
Right ureter; excision:
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade, with markedly pleomorphic and poorly
differentiated areas.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (microscopic).
4.
5.
6.
Tumor distribution: Solitary, 6.0 cm, at right lateral and anterior walls.
Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8.
Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/16).
9. PTNM: pT3a, NO, MX.
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
7.
8.
78
Gleason Score: 3+3=6.
Perineural Invasion: Absent.
Tumor Location: Peripheral zone
Tumor Volume Estimate: <2%.
High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.
-
right.
6. Seminal vesicles: Negative for tumor.
Extraprostatic extension: Absent.
Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/16).
Page 1
12. pTNM: pT2a, NO, MX.
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[ ], MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, (), M.D.
Electronically signed out by [], MD
Clinical History:
Bladder Cancer
Specimens Received:
A: Right ureter distal margin
B: Left distal ureter
C: Left pelvic lymph nodes
D: Right pelvic lymph nodes
E: Left ureter
F: Bladder, prostate & seminal vesicles
G: Right ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in seven containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A.
The first container is additionally identified as, "right ureter distal
margin". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a unoriented 0.9 cm length of
ureter with a diameter of 0.4 cm and a lumen of less than 0.1 cm. Specimen is
serially sectioned and submitted between sponges in cassette Al.
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a unoriented 0.1 cm length of probable
ureter with a diameter of 0.4 cm and a lumen of less than 0.1 cm. Specimen is
submitted between sponges in cassette B1.
C.
The third container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.5 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm aggregate
of fibrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple types of lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.5-2.2 cm. Specimen is entirely submitted as follows
C1 one lymph node bisected
C2 one lymph node bisected
C3 one lymph node bisected
C4 one lymph node bisected
C5 4 nodes
C6 adjacent fibrous tissue
D.
The fourth container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5 x 4 x 3 cm aggregate of
fibrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple types of lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.5-3 cm. Specimen is entirely submitted as follows
D1-2 one lymph node bisected
D3-4 one lymph node bisected
D5 4 nodes
D6 3 nodes
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left ureter". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is 2.4 cm length of ureter with a diameter of 0.4
cm and a lumen of less than 0.1 cm with a small amount of attached fibrous
Page 2
tissue. There is a plastic clip and stitch at one end. This end is inked black.
The ureter is serially sectioned and submitted between sponges in cassette E1-2.
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate and
seminal vesicles". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 403 g, 14 × 11 × 3
cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a bladder which measures 12x11x3.5
cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2 cm and the left 2.4 cm, and both
demonstrate patent lumina. The prostate measures 4.8 x 4 x 4 cm. The right
seminal vesicle measures 3.5 x 1.5 cm and the right vas deferens 6 cm. The left
seminal vesicle measures 3 x 1.5 cm and the left vas deferens 8 cm. The right
half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is inked black.
The prostate is opened anteriorly along the urethra and continued superiorly
through the bladder in a Y-shaped incision. The prostate is serially sectioned
from apex to base to reveal unremarkable parenchyma. The bladder demonstrates an
exophytic hemorrhagic yellow-tan 6 x 5.5 cm mass involving the anterior and
right wall. Serial sectioning reveals tumor invasion to a depth of 1.8 cm,
extending to 0.2 cm of the inked margin. There is a 4.5 x 4 cm diverticulum
whith shaggy red mucosa involving the posterior left aspect of the bladder. The
remainder of the mucosa is tan-brown, edematous, and glistening with a uniform
0.4 cm wall thickness. The bilateral ureteral orifices are identified and probe
patent. The tumor extends to within 0.1 cm of the right ureteral orifice
Gross photographs are taken.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
F1: Distal urethral margin
F2: Prostatic apical margin
F3: Right ureteral margin
F4: Left ureteral margin
F5-8: Representative prostate through verumontanum
F9-12: Representative prostate above verumontanum
F13: Seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia
F14: Right ureteral orifice
F15: Left ureteral orifice
F16-22: Multiple tumor sections
F23-24: Diverticulum
F25: Uninvolved dome
F26: Uninvolved anterior wall
F27: Uninvolved posterior wall
F28: Uninvolved right wall
F29: Uninvolved left wall
F30: Uninvolved trigone
G. The seventh container is additionally identified as, "right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is 2.4 cm length of ureter with a diameter
of 0.4 cm and a lumen of less than 0.1 cm with a small amount of attached
fibrous tissue. There is a plastic clip and stitch at one end. This end is inked
black. The ureter is serially sectioned and submitted between sponges in
cassette G1-2.
XXX
() M.D.
Page 3
