Name:
DOB:
Gender:
F
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
Sentinel node #1
-One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).
- Immunostains are in progress.
Sentinel node #2
-One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).
- Immunostains are in progress.
Sentinel node #3
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
050.9
2/8/1 w
UUID:7C003A4F-DC30-43D0-AC61-ACE6BA118BEE
TCGA-EW-A1IY-01A-PR
Redacted
-One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).
D.
E.
- Immunostains are in progress.
Non-sentinel lymph node:
· Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/2).
Right breast mass, 1 short stitch superior, 1 long stitch lateral, lumpectomy:
- Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, intermediate nuclear grade, 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
- Focal ductal carcinoma in situ, cribriform type, intermediate nuclear grade with necrosis.
• Margins are free of tumor.
- Lymphovascular invasion is not seen.
- AJCC pT2NOMX
- See tumor summary.
- Other areas of the breast show fibrocystic changes with microcalcifications.
- Skin with scar and foreign material (gel foam) deposition.
- Changes of [previous biopsy site.
- Focal changes of previous therapy effect noted on non-neoplastic breast tissue and a small portion of tumor.
- Immunostains are in progress.
F.
Deep margin blue true deep:
G.
- Skeletal muscle, no malignancy seen.
Internal mammary sentinel node
-
2nd intercostal
• One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).
- Immunostains are in progress.
Tumor Summary:
Specimen Type: Excision
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes and one non-sentinel node
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 7.2 cm
Additional dimensions: 6.1 x 2.5 cm
Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Not specified
Size of Invasive Component: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 1.8 x 1.5 cm
Histologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma
Histologic Grade:
Tubule Formation: Moderate 10% to 75% (score = 2)
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Marked variation in size, nucleoli, chromatin clumping, etc (score =3)
For a 40x objective with a field area of 0.152 mm2: 0 to 5 mitoses per 10 HPF (score =1)
Total Nottingham Score: Grade II: 6-7 points
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT2
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO
Number examined: 6
Number involved: 0
Distant Metastasis: pMX
Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 2.0 mm
Specify which margin: Posterior (deep), see comment.
Venous/Lymphatic Invasion: Absent
Microcalcifications: Present in non-neoplastic tissue
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: IDS-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9-CMV, F39.4.1=AR and HPV by ISH. All 
immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that I: (1) Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (1) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Status: Signed Out
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
Addendum Diagnosis
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:\
A, B, C, G. Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative (Blocks A1, A2, B1, B2, C1 and G1).
E. Tumor cells are positive for ER and PR and negative for HER2-neu (block E7).
Intraoperative Consultation
AFS.
Sentinel node #1
Negative for tumor
touch prep and FS:
BFS.
Sentinel node #2
FS:
Negative for tumor
CFS.
Sentinel node #3
FS:
Negative for tumor
FFS.
Deep margin blue true deep FS:
Skeletal muscle, no malignancy seen
Clinical History:
Patient is a year old female with history of right breast cancer.
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Page 2 of 4
Right breast cancer
Specimen(s) Received:
touch prep and FS
A: sentinel node #1
B: sentinel node #2
C: sentinel node #3
1 FS
FS
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
D: non-sentinel lymph node
E: right breast mass, 1 short stitch superior, 1 long stitch lateral fresh
F: deep margin blue true deep FS
G: Internal mammary sentinel node
2nd intercostal (
Gross Description:
A.
1
2
B.
touch prep and FS" consists of a lymph node, 1.5 cm in greatest
Received fresh and labeled “sentinel node #1
dimension. Specimen bisected and submitted in toto in two cassettes as follows.
Half on lymph node for frozen
The rest of lymph node for permanent
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #2
consists of irregular shaped, yellow-tan, adipose tissue fragment,
1.4 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm. Specimen submitted in toto in two cassettes.
1
2
One section from frozen
The reminder of the specimen for permanent
C.
D.
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #3
consists of irregular shaped, pale-tan, soft tissue fragment, 0.4 x 0.3
x 0.2 cm. Specimen bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen.
Received in formalin and labeled "non-sentinel lymph node" consists of two irregular shaped, yellow-tan, soft tissue
fragment, 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm and 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. Examination of the specimen reveal two possible lymph nodes, 1.3
cm and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. Specimen submitted in toto in two cassettes as follows.
1112
E.
Large lymph node bisected
Small lymph noe bisected
Received fresh and labeled "right breast mass, 1 short stitch superior, 1 long stitch lateral" consists of an irregular by
shaped, fibro-adipose tissue fragments measuring 7.2 x 6.1 x 2.5 cm and weighing 35.3 grams. Attached to the anterior
aspect of the specimen there is a very thin ellipse of skin, 2.8 cm by 0.2 cm. For gross purpose the specimen is inked as
follows: Anterior resection the skin surrounding the skin in yellow, superior resection margin is inked blue, inferior
resection margin is inked green, medial resection margin is inked red, lateral resection margin is inked orange and
posterior resection margin is inked black. Multiple cross sections reveal an ill-circumscribed, gray-white, hard and gritty
mass, 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. The mass is 0.2 cm from deep resection margin (nearest margin), 1.5 cm from the skin surface,
1.0 cm from medial resection margin, 1.7 cm from lateral resection margin, 2.0 cm from superior resection margin and 1.8
cm from inferior resection margin. The reminder of the specimen reveals an unremarkable fibro-adipose tissue. The
stroma to fat ratio is 30.70%. Representative sections are submitted as follows.
F.
1
Superior resection margin
2
Inferior resection margin
3
Medial resection margin
4
Lateral resection margin
5&6
7-9
10
11-14
Composed sections of the mass in relation with deep resection margin (nearest margin)
Additional representative section from the mass
Representative section from skin
Representative section from the reminder of the stroma
Received fresh and labeled "deep margin blue true deep" consists of irregular shaped, yellow-tan, fibro-adipose tissue
fragments, 1.8 x 1.5 × 0.2 cm. The resection margin inked black. Specimen multisected and submitted in toto in one
cassette for frozen.
G.
Received in formalin and labeled "internal mammary sentinel node
2nd intercostal (
shaped, yellow-tan, soft tissue fragment, 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm. Specimen submitted in toto in one cassette.
consists of irregular
Page 3 of 4
ICD-9(s):
174.8
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primery Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Refiewed;
w
ORQUALIFIED
Page 4 of 4
