UUID:139E5F15-194A-451A-83D7-919C657C08A3
TCGA-UY-A780-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
812013
о
Anatomic Site: Right Ureter (FS)
Left Ureter (FS)
Bladder (FS on urethra)
Distal right ureter (FS)
Right pelvic lymph nodes (FS)
Final urethral margin
Left pelvic lymph nodes
Final left ureter
Clinical Diagnosis/History:
Suite: Bladder Nas
0679
9W8/20/13
The patient is a -year-old woman. No further clinical history is provided.
A recent consult
report
indicates a transurethral bladder tumor resection showing invasive high-grade
urothelial carcinoma with invasion of the
muscularis propria.
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number. Parts A through E are
received fresh. Parts F-H are received in formalin.
It consists of a
Part A is additionally labeled "right ureter (frozen)."
single segment of ureter, measuring 2.8 cm in length
and 1.2 cm in greatest diameter. The specimen is oriented by a black stitch
and verbally by the surgeon. Gross tumor extends
from the distal end of the ureter. The proximal margin is submitted en face
for frozen section diagnosis as FS1, with the
frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Al. The remaining ureter is
entirely submitted as follows:
Cassette A2:
Proximal half of remaining ureter.
Cassette A3:
Distal half of remaining ureter.
Part B is additionally labeled "left ureter (frozen)." It consists of one
fragment of pink-red ureter, measuring 0.5 × 0.4 x
0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as
FS2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette Bl.
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder." It consists of a specimen, weighing
271 gm and measuring 22 x 13 x 3.5 cm. Present
within the specimen is a bladder, with a stent protruding through the left
ureter. In addition, there is included the left
fallopian tube and ovary. There is a small portion of the vaginal cuff
posterior to the urethra. The small stub of the left
ureter measures 0.3 cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter and is grossly normal.
The remnant fragment of right ureter measures
1.5 cm in length and 0.9 cm in diameter, and there is gross tumor at the
proximal end. An en face margin of the urethra is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS3, with the frozen section remnant
submitted in cassette Cl. The right-anterior
half of the bladder is inked green, the left-anterior half is inked blue, and
the posterior is inked black. The specimen is
Within the posterior aspect,
then opened anteriorly through the remaining urethra to reveal a yellow-tan,
friable mass, measuring 3 x 2 x 1.8 cm, near the
right ureter opening and posterior bladder wall.
there is an area of potential bladder wall
involvement by the tumor, with possible tumor within 0.1 cm of the posterior
surgical resection margin. No other focal lesions
are identified. The left fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm
in average diameter. The fimbriae are lush,
cross sections are grossly normal.
and has a grossly normal parenchyma.
and
The left ovary measures 2.5 x 1.2 x 0.9 cm
The
perivesicular fat is extensively searched for lymph nodes, with two candidate
lymph nodes identified. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
fallopian tube.
Remnant from FS3.
Right and left ureter margins.
Left fallopian tube and ovary.
Normal bladder.
Tumor at posterior bladder.
Tumor at posterior bladder.
Mass at right ureter.
Mass at candidate remnant urethra.
Two candidate lymph nodes and candidate right
Part D is additionally labeled "distal right ureter, long stitch =
end." It consists of a single red-tan, tubular
proximal
structure, measuring 4.3 cm in length and 1.4 cm in greatest diameter.
lumen measures 0.4 cm in diameter. A long stitch
The
An en
marks the proximal margin, and a short stitch marks the distal margin.
face cut of the proximal margin is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as FS4, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette D1. The remaining specimen is entirely
submitted as follows:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassette D4:
Remaining proximal one-third.
Remaining mid one-third.
Remaining distal one-third.
" consists of soft,
Part E, additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes,
red-yellow, fibro-fatty tissue measuring 8 x 5.5 × 1
cm and weighing 26 gm. Multiple prominent lymph node candidates are
identified. Representative sections from two lymph node
candidates are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 5. The first frozen
section remnant is submitted in cassette El, with the
remainder of the lymph node candidate submitted in cassette E2.
frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette E3,
The second
with the remainder of the lymph node candidates submitted in cassettes E4-ES.
Following fixation, the remainder of the lymph
node candidates are submitted as follows:
Cassette E6:
Cassette E7:
Cassette E8:
Cassette E9:
inked.
Cassette E10:
differentially inked.
Cassette Ell:
One lymph node, bisected.
One lymph node candidate, bisected.
One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Two lymph node candidates, bisected and differentially
Three small lymph node candidates, bisected, two
Multiple small lymph node candidates, submitted whole.
Part F, additionally labeled "4 final urethral margin," consists of one
firm, yellow-brown, irregular, unoriented tissue
fragment measuring 2.2 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is sectioned and entirely
submitted in cassette Fl.
Part G, additionally labeled "7
-
left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of
multiple soft, yellow, irregular, unoriented,
fibroadipose tissue fragments measuring 9 x 5 x 3.5 cm in aggregate and
containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging from
0.3 to 3.1 cm in greatest diameter. The lymph node candidates are submitted
as follows:
Cassette Gl:
Cassette G2:
different colors.
Cassettes G3-G5:
Cassettes G6-G9:
Intact lymph node candidates.
Two bisected lymph node candidates, inked in
Single lymph node candidate, trisected.
Single lymph node candidate, sectioned into four sections.
-
Part H, additionally labeled "8 final left ureter," consists of one soft,
tan-white, irregular, unoriented, fibrous tissue
fragment measuring 1 × 0.7 × 0.2 cm. The specimen is trisected and entirely
submitted in cassette Hl.
The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the
They have not been cleared or approved by the
These tests are
U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
used for clinical purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments
of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.
Diagnosis Comments:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type:
Urothelial (transitional cell).
2.
Tumor grade: High grade.
3.
Tumor size: 3 cm.
4.
Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis
propria.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None identified.
Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder:
Final margin free of tumor.
Final margin free of tumor.
6.
7.
8.
Surgical margins:
Urethral margin:
Free of tumor.
Right ureter margin:
Left ureter margin:
Perivesical margin:
C5.
10.
11.
12.
Ureter, right.
Negative, closest margin is 0.2 cm, posterior, slide
9. Lymph nodes: No tumor (0/24).
Other pathologic findings in bladder:
inflammation.
AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bN0MX.
Ulceration and chronic
Additional margin: The distal end of Part A (right ureter) is involved by
high grade invasive carcinoma (slide A3) into the
muscularis propria; however the proximal
demonstrates chronic inflammation of the
atypia of the urothelial mucosa with we regard as reactive atypia. In Part D
(labeled final proximal margin of the right
specimen margin (slide Al)
lamina propria with
ureter) the proximal specimen margin (slide D1) is negative for dysplasia or
carcinoma. However the distal end of this specimen
Because of
Immunohistochemical stain for
(slide D4) reveals nuclear atypia of urothelial carcinoma in situ.
the intense chronic inflammation, distinguishing
reactive vs dysplastic changes are difficult.
p53 was performed on slide 03 where the inflamed
urothelium have atypical, round, slightly enlarged nuclei and prominent
nucleoli. The stains highlights scattered positivity.
Thus based on the morphology and results of the immunohistochemical stain, the
atypical changes on slide D3 are regarded as
reactive. Dr.
has reviewed select portions of Parts A and D
and concurs. Level section on C9 confirms the
diagnosis.
Interoperative Diagnosis:
FS1 (A) Right ureter, proximal margin, biopsy: Chronic ureteritis with
atypia, favor dysplasia.
FS2 (B) Left ureter, biopsy: No tumor seen.
FS3
(C) Distal urethra, biopsy: No tumor seen.
FS4
(D) Right ureter, proximal margin, biopsy: No tumor seen.
FS5
(E) Right pelvic lymph nodes, biopsy:
lymph node candidates, no tumor seen.
Representative section of two
Final Diagnosis:
A.
1.
Right ureter, distal, resection:
Proximal specimen margin with chronic ureteritis and atypia; see comment.
2. Distal end of ureter with high grade invasive urothelial carcinoma into
muscularis propria.
B. Left ureter, distal, biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.
C.
Bladder and left fallopian tube and ovary, cystectomy and
salpingo-oophorectomy:
1. Bladder with invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, into outer one-half
of muscularis propria; see comment.
2.
3.
No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).
Left fallopian tube and ovary with no significant pathologic abnormality.
D. Right ureter, final proximal margin, biopsy: Proximal specimen margin with
no dysplasia or carcinoma.
E.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: No tumor in seventeen lymph nodes
(0/17).
11
F. Urethra, "final margin, biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection: No tumor in six lymph nodes (0/6).
G.
H.
Left ureter, final margin, biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
/ 8/9/13
Yes
No
Duai/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initial
QUALIFIE
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
892013
