Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
Result Type:
Result Date:
Surg Path Final Report
Result Status:
Auth (Verified)
Result Title:
Surgical Pathology Final Report
Verified By:
Encounter info:
Final Diagnosis (Verified)
UUID:4C037ABC-7731-4DD8-A6CC-0F871C09D16F
TCGA-GC-A3RD-01A-PR
Redacted
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
1ºAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Revi
QUALIFIED
☑Date Reviewed:
DISOJANFIED
tw 3/3/12
...al Report *
10003
Carcinoma, urothelial, NOS
812013
Site: bladder, Nos
0679
3-30-12 RD
Left ureteral margin, biopsy with frozen section:
Segment of ureter demonstrating marked chronic inflammation and prominent
denudation of epithelium.
Right ureteral margin, biopsy with frozen section:
No tumor seen.
Additional left ureteral margin, biopsy with frozen section:
Chronically inflamed ureter segment with prominent denudation of surface epithelium,
however, no malignancy is seen.
Urinary bladder, resection:
Invasive high grade transitional cell carcinoma.
Maximum tumor diameter is 1.5 cm.
Tumor invades through muscular propria into underlying perivesical soft tissue.
Tumor comes to within 1.8 mm of the inked perivesical soft tissue margin.
No evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
Negative urethral margin.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Six (6) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Appendix, resection:
Negative appendix with luminal fibrosis and distal appendix.
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 1 of 3
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
*
Final Report *
Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Two (2) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Comment: AJCC pathologic stage T3a,NO.
Signature Line
(Electronically signed by)
Verified on:
Performing Lab (Verified)
Testing performed at
Gross Description (Verified)
"FSA." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette "FSA,".
"FSB." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette "FSB,".
"FSC." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette "FSC,".
"D, Bladder." The specimen consists of a previously opened bladder with attached fatty tissue with an overall measurement of 10.1 x 7.2 ×
3.7 cm. Upon reconstruction, the bladder measures 4.4 x 6.4 x 4.5 cm. The urethral margin is inked black, shaved, and submitted. The
bladder has previously been opened along the anterior aspect to reveal a 1.5 1.3 cm pale tan, firm, well circumscribed mass located on the
left central anterior aspect of the bladder wall. The anterior soft tissue margin is inked black. On sectioning, this mass measures 0.9 cm in
thickness, grossly appears to extend through the bladder wall and comes to within 0.1 cm of the inked soft tissue margin. The left ureteral
orifice is identified and was probe patent. A possible right ureteral orifice is identified. The mass does not grossly appear to involve the left or
right ureteral orifices. The remaining bladder mucosa has a pale tan to gray-tan appearance. No cysts or areas of interest are identified.
"D1," urethral margin; "D2-D3," mass to include anterior soft tissue margin; "D4," mass to include left ureteral orifice; "D5," possible right
ureteral orifice; "D6," posterior bladder; "D7," trigone; "D8," right bladder wall, representative. NOTE: Please see attached drawing.
"E, Right pelvic lymph node." The specimen consists of 2 yellow-tan fatty fragments measuring 3.8 x 0.7 x 0.8 cm and 3.8 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm.
On examination, 6 possible lymph nodes are identified. These range in size from 0.7 to 2.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted into
cassettes "E1-E2," representative.
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 2 of 3
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
Final Report *
"F, Appendix." The specimen consists of a 5.3 x 0.4 cm appendix with a small amount of attached periappendiceal fat. The serosa is
gray-tan with no adhesions. On sectioning, the lumen has a pale tan thickened appearance. No fecaliths or perforations are identified. The
margin is inked black. "F," fragments, representative.
"G, Left pelvic lymph node." The specimen consists of a 4.4 x 3.8 x 1.8 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fatty tissue. On examination, 3 possible
lymph nodes are identified. These range in size from 0.5 to 3.8 cm. The 2 smaller lymph nodes are submitted in toto. A representative
section of the larger lymph node is submitted. Free in the container is a 3.0 x 0.4 cm tan-brown cylindrical vessel. "G," 4p, representative.
Signature Line
Frozen Section Diagnosis (Verified)
FSA: "Left ureteral margin" measuring 0.5 cm diameter x 0.4 cm length, black ink on true margin.
FSB: "Right ureteral margin" measuring 0.5 cm diameter x 0.4 cm length, black ink on true margin.
FSC: "2nd left ureteral margin" measures 0.5 cm diameter x 0.3 cm length, ink at true margin. Staple removed from opposite end.
FSA: "Left ureteral margin," frozen section: Predominantly denuded epithelium with small attached portion of carcinoma in situ. No invasive
component present.
FSB: "Right ureteral margin," frozen section: Negative for malignancy.
FSC: "Left ureretal margin, second," frozen section: Negative for malignancy.
"Bladder" Received fresh, previously opened by surgeon is a bladder. Section of tumor and adjacent normal bladder submitted for tumor
studies.
Clinical Information (Verified)
Bladder cancer.
Completed Action List:
Order by
"
VERIFY by
* Order by '
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 3 of 3
(End of Report)
