Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A.
B.
C.
D.
Left axillary lymph node biopsy
-
-
-
One lymph node (1) negative for carcinoma.
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
Left axillary lymph node biopsy (
-
-
-
:
One lymph node (1) negative for carcinoma.
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
Left axillary lymph node biopsy (
One lymph node (1) negative for carcinoma.
Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.
Left breast mastectomy:
-
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating lobular, Nos 85/20/3
Path Site: breast, lower outer quadrant
CQCF Site: breast, Nos
050.9
050.5
2/9/4
Mr
INVASIVE CARCINOMA, with lobular features, moderately differentiated Nottingham grade 2 (3 + 3 + 1= 7),
largest extent of tumor grossly measuring 2.0 cm (see note).
IN SITU CARCINOMA, with lobular features, high nuclear grade, central comedo necrosis and calcifications is
present in 4 out of 12 slides (see note).
-
Biopsy site is present.
-
-
Margins negative for in situ and invasive carcinoma.
No lymphovascular invasion is present.
Immunohistochemical results:
UUID:79C8D757-50BE-4375-AF69-E577629EEOCA
TCGA-EW-A133-01A-PR
Redacted
Estrogen receptor:
Positive
Progesterone receptor:
Positive
HER-2:
E-Cadherin:
Positive (3+)
Negative
Note: This is an unusual neoplasm with morphologic features of a lobular in situ and invasive carcinoma that is E-
cadherin negative, with high nuclear grade and necrosis, and positive HER-2. The biological behavior and clinical course
of such neoplasms, which are sometimes referred to as Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma, may be similar to ductal
carcinomas.
Surgical Pathology Tumor Summary
Specimen: Total breast
Procedure: Total mastectomy
Lymph node sampling: Sentinel lymph node
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2.0 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis without skin
Skeletal muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Lobular carcinoma in situ: Present
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive carcinoma with lobular features
Glandular (Acinar) Tubular Differentiation: Score 3<10% of the tumor are forming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation in
In size and shape, occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
Mitotic count: Score 1
Overall grade: Grade 2: scores of 6 or 7
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1.2 cm from deep margin
Lymph-vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph nodes: Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 3
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (<0.2 mm and <200 cells): 0
Size of largest metastatic deposit (if present): 0
Extranodal extension: Not identified
Method of evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes: Immunohistochemistry (pending)
Pathologic staging: pT1c: Tumor >10 mm but <20 mm in greatest dimension
pNO: (i+): Malignant cells in regional lymph nodes no greater than 0.2 cm and no more than 200 cells (detected by H & E or IHC
including ITC).
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on this specimen
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (>1%)
Progesterone Receptor: Performed on this specimen
Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (>1%)
HER2/neu: Performed on this specimen
Results: Positive (Score 3+)
Microcalcifications: Present in situ carcinoma
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory. These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used:
IDS-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485--HER2, H-11-EGFR. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by Envision Method. The results are read by a
pathologist as positive or negative.
As the attending pathologist. I attest that 1: (i) Examined the relevant preparation(s)
for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
***Electronically Signed Out By***
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
Status: Signed Out
Addendum Diagnosis
D.
LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY:
The tumor cells are positive for HER2 gene amplification by CISH (performed at
Intraoperative Consultation
A.
Left axilla 1
B.
Left axilla 1
C.
Left axilla 1
FS: No obvious malignancy; however, immunostains are pending.
- FS: No obvious malignancy; however, immunostains are pending.
FS: No obvious malignancy; however, immunostains are pending.
Clinical History:
Page 2 of
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Patient with biopsy-proven infiltrating lobular carcinoma. Please evaluate margins and if sentinel nodes are H&E negative, do
immunohistochemistry.
Operation Performed
Left total mastectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy, possible axillary node dissection
Pre Operative Diagnosis;
Infiltrating lobular carcinoma of left breast
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Left axilla 1
- FS
B: Left axilla 1
- FS
C: Left axilla 1
- FS
D: Left breast
Gross Description:
A.
B.
C.
D.
Received fresh is a 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one block for frozen
section.
Received fresh is a 2 x 1 x 0.6 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one block for frozen
section.
Received fresh is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one block for frozen
section.
Received in formalin is an 871-gram, 20 x 16 x 6 cm mastectomy specimen. An ellipse of skin is identified it measures
16 x 9 x 0.2 cm. The nipple and areola measure 1.8 cm and 4.5 cm, respectively. The specimen is oriented with one
stitch superior and two stitches medial. The specimen is inked and cross sectioned in the frozen room. A2 x 1.5 x 1.2
cm, ill-defined lesion was identified in the left lower outer quadrant. This lesion is located 1.2 cm from the deep resection
margin (closest). A 0.2 x 0.1 cm tissue sample was taken by Dr. A 0.3 x 0.3 cm tissue sample was taken for tissue
bank. A 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm tissue sample was taken by Dr.
for research. An additional piece of adipose
tissue and skin accompanies the specimen; it measures 7.5 x 4 x 2.5 cm. The skin measures 7 x 2.5 x 0.1 cm. Cross
sections throughout the specimen show a multilobulated adipose tissue. No lesions are identified. The fat to stroma ratio
is 40:60. The specimen is submitted as follows:
Section of nipple and areola
Lesion in relation to the deep margin (closest)
1
2
3-5
Remainder of lesion in toto
B
Section of left upper inner quadrant
7
Section of left lower inner quadrant
8
Section of central compartment
9
Section of left upper outer quadrant
10
Section of left lower outer quadrant
11&12 Sections of additional breast tissue segment
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Day Reviewed: A
Page 3 of:
