Patient:
DOB:
Age:
Gender: F
Ref#:
Hosp#:
Date of Service:
Date Received:
Referring Physician:
Patient Location:
Outpatient
Room:
Bed:
A copy of this report will be faxed to:
UUID:4D864947-076C-4A66-940D-682E75E525A2
TCGA-AC-A3BB-01A-PR
Case #:
Date Reported:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Criteria
Diagnosis:
Redacted
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
BREAST, RIGHT, MODIFIED RADICAL MASTECTOMY:
- Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 2.
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
od 10/25/11 11/25/11
"
Tumor size at least 65 mm, see comment.
- Surgical margins negative.
- Five of fourteen lymph nodes POSITIVE for carcinoma (5/14).
- Extracapsular extension identified.
10D-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating lobulaw, NUS 8520/3
Site: breast, Nos
C50.9
In 10/25/11
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 2.
Type and grade (in situ): Lobular carcinoma in situ.
Primary tumor: pT3.
Regional lymph nodes: pN2a (5/14 lymph nodes positive).
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: IIIA.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: R0, negative.
COMMENT: The tumor size is measured at least 6.5 cm grossly, however, there is a
second tumor mass grossly noted that shows similar histology to the large tumor
mass grossly noted. On random sections between the two tumor masses, invasive
lobular carcinoma is seen, therefore, these masses are considered to be one large
tumor mass rather than two separate masses (overall gross estimate of 14 cm).
Results discussed with Dr.
Case #:
Printed:
Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:
Fax:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, Oct 2009)
This staging also incorporates:
Previous biopsy:
Breast profile:
Other: N/A.
Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen laterality:
Specimen size (other than mastectomy):
INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:
Invasive tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:
Mitotic count:
Other Grading System:
Lymphatic invasion:
MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closet margin:
Other margins:
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LCIS):
Skin:
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:
INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (PT):
Total breast including nipple and skin.
Modified radical mastectomy.
Axillary dissection.
Single intact specimen.
Right.
2,220 grams, 28 x 23 x 6 cm.
At least 65 mm.
Upper outer quadrant.
Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
Invasive lobular carcinoma.
Grade 2, cumulative score 6 of 9.
Less than 5% (3 of 3).
Intermediate (2 of 3).
Low (1 of 3).
Two per ten high power field.
N/A.
Not identified.
RO, negative.
Deep at 15 mm.
All other margins 15 mm or greater.
Not identified.
Present.
Present, invades skin, no ulceration or
lymphovascular invasion.
Present, tumor invades nipple.
Not identified.
pT3.
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (PM):
Pathologic stage:
pN2a (5/14 lymph nodes POSITIVE).
PMX.
ΙΙΙΑ.
RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:
Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:
KI-67 proliferative index:
COMMENT:
Additional pathologic findings:
POSITIVE (95-100% positive cells, strong
intensity).
POSITIVE (90-100% positive cells, strong
intensity).
Negative (0, scale 0-3+).
Low (2-5% positive cells).
The biomarkers are combined from previous
cases and show a similar staining pattern. The
patient had two previous biopsies, however, on
the mastectomy specimen, there are two
identified masses, however, there is intervening
tumor cells and both tumor masses show a
similar histology, therefore, it's felt to represent
one large tumor mass. In addition to the five
macrometastases seen in the fourteen lymph
nodes, two additional lymph nodes show isolated
tumor cells (and are not included in the five
positive nodes).
Apocrine metaplasia, atypical lobular
hyperplasia, usual ductal hyperplasia.
. MD,
Signed by
Source of Specimen:
Right Breast total mastectomy
Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Right breast cancer.
Gross Description:
The specimen is labeled right breast modified radical mastectomy and is received without fixative. It
consists of a modified radical mastectomy which weighs 2,220 grams. Overall, the specimen measures 28
x 23 x 6 cm. There is an overlying broad ellipse of brown skin measuring 30 x 19.5 cm. Centrally and
slightly superiorly within the skin, there is a 7.5 cm areola and a protuberant 1.5 cm nipple. The
peripheral skin displays five sharply delineated dark brown, smooth, shiny papules. The anterior-superior
margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists
of smooth facial tissue, is inked black. Axillary tissue is present with at stitch marking the axilla. The
axillary tail measures 10 × 5 × 2 cm. In the lower outer quadrant of the breast, there is palpably firm and
hemorrhagic breast parenchyma which is very poorly delineated. There is some bright yellow
discoloration of the associated fatty tissue. This area of firm fibrous parenchyma involves an area
Case #:
Printed:
Phone:
Page 3
This report continues... (FINAL)
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
measuring 6.5 cm from medial to lateral, 5.5 cm from superior to inferior, and up to 3 cm from superficial
to deep. The fibrous tissue is 4 cm from the closest inferior margin, 12 cm from the closest superior margin,
9 cm from the closest medial margin, and 11 cm from the closest lateral margin. It is 2.5 cm from the
closest deep margin, and 2 cm from the closest skin. Representative sections of this tissue are obtained for
research purposes. Further examination of the breast reveals scattered moderately dense
, tan-white
fibrous parenchyma throughout all four quadrants. In the lower outer quadrant of the breast centrally, 5.5
cm lateral to the palpably firm breast tissue, there is an additional Ill-defined 2 cm area of moderately
dense fibrous tissue with very focal bright yellow discoloration of the surrounding fat. This lower outer
quadrant fibrous parenchyma is 1.5 cm from the closest margin which is the deep margin. It 
is 5 cm 
from
the closest lateral margin, and greater than 5 cm from all other margins, except for the skin where 
it is 
1.8
cm from the skin. There are multiple palpable firm nodes within the axillary portion of the dissection.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
A1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
A2) representative skin including small papules,
A3) sections from medial edge of palpably firm and fibrous tissue,
A4-A6) central sections of firm neoplastic tissue submitted from superior to inferior,
A7-A8) representative sections of lateral edge of fibrous tissue,
A9) representative section of fibrous tissue from far lateral lower outer quadrant,
A10) representative deep margin far lateral lower outer quadrant,
A11) representative deep margin central breast underlying palpably firm tissue,
A12) representative tissue from upper inner quadrant,
A13) representative tissue lower inner quadrant,
A14) representative tissue upper outer quadrant,
A15) representative sections of lower outer quadrant (in between palpable central tumor and far lateral
lower outer quadrant sections),
A16) representative sections of largest 2.7 cm node (grossly suspicious for tumor),
A17) single node, bivalved (grossly suspicious for tumor),
A18) single node, trisected (grossly suspicious),
A19) single node, trisected,
A20) two nodes, inked and bivalved, one possible node intact,
A21) one node, inked and bivalved, possible smaller nodes intact,
A22-A25) additional sections following reexamination for possible lymph nodes.
Microscopic Description:
Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Immunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin.
Case #:
Printed:
Page 4
REPRINT: Orig. printing on
Phone:
Fax:
