Redacted
UUID:683132FE-FCA5-4D03-A018-45D36B12FFD4
TCGA-FD-A3B5-01A-PR
Pathology Report:
Surgical Pathology Report
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
QUALIFIED
Dual/Syr.chronous Primary Noted
Case is circle):
Reviewer mi
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
tw 10/21/11
7/22/11
ICD-0-3
Path: Site: bladder, wall, NES
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nos 8120/3
CQCF: bladder, wall, posterior C67.4
0679
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A.
B.
C.
D.
Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation in one of
six lymph nodes (1/6).
-
The tumor focus measure 0.4 cm.
No extranodal extension present.
Right distal ureter; excision:
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
Five lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/5).
Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:
- Urothelial 
carcinoma of the urinary bladder, high grade,
with extensive squamous differentiation and keratin production,
invasive into the outer half of the muscularis propria.
- Multifocal urothelial carcinoma in situ (flat urothelial carcinoma) of
the urinary bladder,
involving surface urothelium and cystitis cystica.
Margins of resection (soft tissue, prostatic urethra, right and left
ureter),
E.
F.
no tumor present.
See pathologic parameters and comment.
Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
Seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia, no tumor present.
Left distal ureter; excision:
- Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Right distal ureter%;B excision:
Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation
2. Grade of tumor: High grade
3. Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria, outer half
4.
Tumor distribution: Multifocal urothelial carcinoma in situ (trigone,
posterior and anterior wall)
Invasive solitary urothelial carcinoma in the right posterior and lateral wall,
measures 6.0 cm
5. Ureteral margins: Negative
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative
8. Lymph nodes: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation
in one of eleven lymph nodes (1/11)
9. PTNM: pT2bN1MX
Effective
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Page 1
NW 16/21/11
Comment
The sections show multifocal urothelial carcinoma in situ (slides labeled D22,
D25, D26 and D30). Although the entire portion of invasive carcinoma shows
extensive squamous differentiation with keratin production, the presence of
urothelial carcinoma in situ, by consent, defines this tumor as urothelial
carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
XXX
[ ], M.D
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, (), M.D.
Electronically signed out by [], M.D
Clinical History:
The patient is an
year-old male with a malignant neoplasm of bladder
undergoing a cystectomy.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph nodes
B: Right distal ureter
C: Left pelvic lymph node
D: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens
E: Left distal ureter
F: Right distal ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in six containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rubbery
yellow-tan tissue measuring 6.0 x 3.2 x 1.3 cm, which is dissected for lymph
node candidates. Six rubbery tan-yellow lymph node candidates are identified
ranging in size from 0.3-4.8 cm. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:
A1:
A2:
A3:
A4-A6:
B.
3 lymph node candidates
One lymph node candidate
One lymph node candidate, trisected
One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
The second container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 0.9 cm in length by 0.4
cm in diameter tubular segment of tan-pink tissue which is bisected and
submitted entirely as B1 (opposite ends placed en face in cassette).
C.
The third container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rubbery
yellow-tan tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm, which is dissected for lymph
node candidates. Five rubbery tan-yellow lymph node candidates are identified
ranging in size from 0.3-2.7 cm. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:
c1:
C2
c3:
C4:
C5:
D.
One lymph node candidate
One lymph node candidate, bisected
One lymph node candidate
One lymph node candidate, bisected
One lymph node candidate, bisected
The fourth container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate,
Page 2
seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a
310.5 g, 16.0 x10 x 4.5 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7.0 x 6.5
x 4.0 cm bladder with attached mesenteric fat and a 5.0 × 3.9 x 3.2 cm prostate.
The right seminal vesicles measures 5.0 x 2.0 x 0.9 cm and right vas deferens
measures 12.5 cm in length by 0.2-0.4 cm in diameter. The left seminal vesicles
measures 4.5 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm and left vas deferens measures 6.5 cm in length by
0.5 cm in diameter. The right ureteral stump measures 1.1 cm in length by 0.4
cm in diameter, the left measures 2.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter.
right ureter is not probe patent and the left ureter is probe patent.
The
The right half of the prostate is inked blue and the left half is inked black.
The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra. The prostate
is surrounded by a thin, intact shaggy membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri-urethral nodularity which disrupts the
prostatic urethra mucosa. The right aspect of the prostate exhibits solid
tan-yellow areas intermixed with cystic spaces throughout the entire half from
apex to base. The solid components range in size from 0.6-1.5 cm, and the
closest is 0.3 cm from the inked outer surface. The left half of the prostate
exhibits spongy tan tissue, from apex to base, intermixed with small tan-brown
calculi. The anterior aspect of the prostate, from apex to base, demonstrates
ill-defined areas of smooth glistening tan-white to purple rubbery tissue which
focally abuts the inked outer surface.
The opened bladder reveals a 6.0 x 6.0 x 3.0 cm exophytic, friable tan-red to
brown mass in the right posterior and right lateral wall. On cut section, the
mass has a pale tan cut surface, intermixed with scattered areas of hemorrhage,
which extends through the bladder wall and comes to within 0.2 cm of the black'
inked surface. The surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled tan-pink to purple
with wall thicknesses ranging from 0.7-1.4 cm. The right ureteral orifice is
not identified at the trigone and is not probe patent. The left ureteral orifice
is identified and probes patent.
Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Left ureter margin
D1:
D2:
D3:
D4:
D5:
D6-D10:
Right ureter margin
Prostatic urethral margin
Prostatic apical margin, shaved and perpendicularly sectioned
Next cross section after prostatic apical margin
Representative sections of right half of prostate submitted
sequentially from apex to base
D11-D17:
Representative sections of left half of prostate submitted
sequentially from apex to base
D18:
D19:
D20-D25:
D26:
D27:
D28:
D29:
D30:
Representative sections of left seminal vesicle and vas deferens
Representative sections of right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
Representative sections of mass (deepest extent in cassette D20)
Uninvolved trigone
Uninvolved posterior bladder wall
Uninvolved left bladder wall
Uninvolved bladder dome
Uninvolved anterior bladder wall
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.1 cm in length by 0.4 cm in
diameter tubular segment of tan-pink tissue which is surrounded by shaggy
tan-yellow to pink tissue. A suture designates the non-marginal side and the
specimen probes patent. The margin side is amputated and submitted en face as
E1.
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.1 cm in length by 0.5 cm in
diameter tubular segment tan-pink tissue with a small amount of attached
tan-yellow tissue. A suture designates the non-marginal side and probes patent.
Page 3
