UUID:C1B1FAA6-EB15-43BB-B3A3-D11511C76060
TCGA-A7-A4SF-01A-PR
Redacted
Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Sentinel lymph node, right axilla, biopsy: Two negative lymph
nodes (0/2).
B. Breast, right, excisional biopsy:
Invasive ductal carcinoma, grade 2, size not less than 2.5 cm,
present at the medial and posterior margins; see microscopic
description.
Ductal carcinoma in-situ, grade 2, present at the inferior
margin.
Microscopic Description:
Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type:
Histologic grade:
Ductal
2
Overall grade: 7/9
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score:
Mitotic score: 1
2
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating duct, NOS 8500/3
Site: brust, NOS
Greatest dimension (pT2): Not less than 2.5 cm, and possibly as
much as 4.0 cm (invasive carcinoma extends away from the main
tumor mass into the surrounding fat throughout much of the
specimen).
Specimen margins: Invasive carcinoma is broadly present at
the medial and posterior margins.
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Not identified
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Histologic pattern: Solid, cribriform
Nuclear grade: 2
Central Necrosis: Focal
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): 28
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): Absent
Specimen margins: DCIS is at the inferior margin of the
050.9
سل
10/27/12
specimen
Calcification:
Negative
i
Comments: Two prior biopsy sites are identified in the mid-portion of
the specimen. There is a confluence of tumor present microscopically
between the two 
apparent masses formed by the tumor, supporting the
conclusion of a single tumor mass lesion. Additionally, there is
tumor infiltrating around and beyond the tumor mass areas, into the
surrounding fat, and to the specimen margins as stated above.
immunostaining performed to confirm the presence of invasive carcinoma
p63
at the 
margin. E-cadherin performed to exclude LCIS and confirm DCIS
at the inferior 
margin.
Cytokeratin immunostaining performed on two lymph node blocks to
exclude 
metastatic carcinoma; stains are negative.
Prognostic markers: See previous biopsy report
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature.
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
They have not
Specimen
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node
B. Right breast mass, long anterior, short superior
procurement
Clinical Information
Right breast cancer;
cancers
tissue
year old black female with two side by side
Gross Description
A. Received unfixed, labeled right axillary sentinel node, are 2
lymph nodes, 0.7 and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension each, entirely
submitted with each lymph node and a separate block (bisected).
B. Received unfixed, and a transparent container, labeled right
breast mass, is a 5.5 x 4.3 x 3.0 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue
with orienting sutures. Margins are inked: Anterior black,
posterior blue, lateral green, and medial yellow.
serially sectioned from superior to inferior.
The specimen is
There is a 2.5 x 2.5
x 1.5 cm tumor mass, which is somewhat dumbbell-shaped, but appears
to consist of one tumor mass. Sections submitted as follows: 1
superior margin, 2 through 6 superior-most portion of tumor, 7
through 9 transition area of probable second lobe of tumor mass
(contiguous sections), 10 breast tissue intervening between tumor
Portion of tumor and normal
mass and margin, 11 - inferior margin.
Additional
submitted for tissue procurement, as requested.
sections submitted: RR1 intervening tissue between superior margin
and tumor; 2-4 additional superior tissue, 5-7 representative
remaining first half of specimen; 8-14 inferior half of specimen;
15 additional inferior margin.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Pc History
C
'')
ous Diary Noted
KUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIRED
10/27/12
