UUID: 28754343-DA2B-4608-A66C-B4E41B52F6FF
TCGA-GV-A40G-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
De-Identified Specimen Code_
Patient Age/Sex
SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: BLADDER AND PROSTATE
Part B: PELVIC LYMPH NODES #1
Part C: PELVIC LYMPH NODES #2
Part D: RIGHT DISTAL URETER
Final Diagnosis
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, urothelial, Nos,
812013
Site: path: bladckr, NOS C67.9
CQCF: bladder, wall, NOS C67.9
7-5-12 RD
1. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (A) - Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma
is identified 
involving the previous biopsy site. The tumor focally invades into the muscularis propria.
Associated urothelial carcinoma 
in situ is present.
->
- Right ureter margin is positive for urothelial carcinoma in-situ. The urethra margin and soft tissue
margins are negative 
for tumor.
The prostatic urethra shows involvement by urothelial carcinoma in situ. The prostate parenchyma
shows benign prostatic 
hyperplasia.
- One lymph node negative for neoplasm (0/1).
-
See comment.
2. Pelvic lymph nodes #1, excision (B) - Fifteen lymph nodes negative for neoplasm (0/15).
3. Pelvic lymph nodes #2, excision (C) - Three lymph nodes negative for neoplasm (0/3).
4. Right distal ureter, excision (D) Urothelial carcinoma in situ is present at the margin.
Criteria.
Yes
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tuner Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discpancy
Prior Malignancy history
Dual/Sym hronous Primary Noted (
Case is (circl
Reviewer initial
A QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 19/12
Page 1 of 4
+
16/22/12
:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis Comment:
BLADDER TEMPLATE
Procedure:
Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Size (greatest dimension): 5 cm (including previous biopsy site changes)
Histologic Type: Urothelial carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Histologic grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO
'
): High-grade
Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma:
GX: Cannot be assessed
Margins:
Margin(s) involved by carcinoma in situ
Specify margin(s): right distal ureter
Venous lymphatic invasion: Absent
Direct extension of invasive tumor:None identified
Pathologic Stage (TNM); pT1 pN0 pMX
Number lymph nodes examined: 19
Number lymph nodes involved (any size): 0
Primary Tumor (PT)
pT2a: Tumor invades superficial muscularis propria (inner half).
Regional Lymph Nodes (PN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Distant Metastasis (PM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed
Seen in consultation with Dr.
Frozen section slides were reviewed on the re-excision of the right
ureter. The cytologic atypia borders on dysplasia and urothelial carcinoma in situ, but review of the permanents
favors urothelial carcinoma in situ.
Clinical Diagnosis:
BLADDER CANCER
STITCH MARKS MARGIN
Page 2 of 4
1
ПЕРСАКЕН
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Gross Description:
A. Received already fixed, inked, and opened labeled "bladder and prostate" is a specimen that
consists of urinary 
bladder, right ureter, prostate, attached seminal vesicles and vas deferens. The right
ureter is probed but 
there is no probe identifying the left ureter and the left ureter orifice in the trigone
area could not 
be seen or probed and after dissection a possible 3cm segment of left ureter is seen.
The bladder measures 19 x 11 x 
5 cm. The adhered surface of the bladder is covered by a smooth
serosal lining at the 
dome and fibroadipose tissue at the remaining portion. After the bladder is opened,
a mass measuring 5 x 4 
x 1 cm is identified and is located on the anterior wall, right lateral wall, left
lateral wall, posterior 
wall and the trigone area. The mass is 4 cm from the right ureter margin, 3.5 cm
from the urethral margin
, and 3.5 cm from the possible left ureter margin, and appears to invade 1 cm
deep. The mass is principally 
papillary. On sectioning, the mass extends to roughly 1 cm grossly into
the wall but does not 
grossly appear to go through the muscularis propria. It does not appear to involve
the perivesicular adipose 
tissue. The bladder mucosa is erythematous near the urethra. A 4 cm
segment of 
right ureter and is patent, and the mucosa appears unremarkable. The left ureter was very
difficult to locate as there 
is no probe within it for fixation and the office in the trigone area could not be
identified. A 
possible 3 cm segment of left ureter is identified after dissection. Its mucosa appears
unremarkable. 
The prostate measures 4 x 4 x 4 cm craniocaudally, anteroposteriorly, and transversely.
The apex of the gland is conical
. The capsular surface is smooth. On palpation, an area of firmness is
not identified. The 
gland is inked blue on the right, and yellow on the left. After fixation, the gland is
serially sectioned at 
3 mm intervals and the cross sections do not reveal a mass lesion. Rubbery
nodularity is 
present. The seminal vesicles appear unremarkable. Representative sections are
submitted as follows
: FSA1 urethra, FSA2 suture, FSA3 left vas deferens, FSA4 right vas deferens,
FSA5 right ureter, 
FSA6 left ureter, A8 anterior wall with mass, A9 right trigone area and right ureter
with mass, A10 right 
lateral with mass, A11 dome, A12 left lateral wall with mass, A13 possible left
ureter distal margin
, A14 left trigone area with mass, A15 mass in relation to right seminal vesicle, A16
bladder mucosa near 
urethra, A17 posterior wall with mass, A18 possible mid left ureter, A19 right mid
ureter, A20-A21 
possible lymph nodes, A22 right apex, A23 left apex, A24 3 mm right, A25 3 mm left,
A26 mid prostate right 
anterior, A27 mid prostate left anterior, A28 mid posterior right posterior, A29
mid prostate left 
posterior, A30 base of prostate right anterior, A31 base of prostate left anterior, A32
base of prostate 
right posterior, A33 base of prostate left posterior, A34 right seminal vesicle, A35 left
seminal vesicle.
B. Received fresh labeled "pelvic lymph nodes #1" are multiple segments of yellow fibrofatty tissue
aggregating to 10 x 5 x 1.5 
cm. Palpation reveals 17 yellow firm nodules ranging in size from 0.5 to 4.0
cm in greatest 
dimension. The nodules are totally submitted as follows: B1 four nodules, B2 four
nodules, B3 four 
nodules, B4 two nodules, B5 one nodule, B6 nodule, B7 one nodule bisected.
C. Received fresh labeled "pelvic lymph nodes #2" is a segment of yellow fibrofatty tissue measuring 7
x 4 x 1 cm. Palpation reveals 
3 yellow firm nodules ranging in size from 3.0 to 5.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The nodules 
are totally submitted as follows: C1 one nodule, C2-C3 one nodule bisected,
C4-C5 one nodule bisected.
D. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a specimen labeled "right distal ureter" consisting of
a segment of unoriented 
ureter, measuring 1.2 cm in length with a clip in place 0.4 cm from one end of
Page 3 of 4
..
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Gross Description:
the ureter. The end of the ureter closest to the clip is inked black. The opposing ureter is dilated.
Shaves of both ends of the ureter are submitted for frozen section in cassette FSD1.
Page 4 of 4
