UUID:F43B01E6-E1DB-4481-8003-93870606346A
TCGA-3C-AALK-01A-PR
Redacted
Name:
MRN:
D.O.B.
(Age: )
Sex:
F
Location:
Path No.:
Date Obtained:
Date Received:
Physician:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
**See Addendum/Procedure**
SPECIMEN:
A:Subnipple tissue, right breast, excision
B:Lymph node, right axilla sentinel node, biopsy
C:Lymph node, right axilla sentinel node #2, biopsy
D:Breast, right, total mastectomy
E:Skin, right breast, excision
DIAGNOSIS(ES):
A. Subnipple tissue, right breast, excision:
ICD03
Carcinoma infiltrating duct NOS.
Date C
Youast NOS
path
0509
850013
⑦Breast, central portion
Nipple ducts with atypical micropapillary hyperplasia. No carcinoma seen.
B. Lymph node, right axilla sentinel node, biopsy:
W 3/11/14
7.50.1
Lymph node, bisected and serially sectioned, negative for carcinoma. IHC for cytokeratin is negative.
C. Lymph node, right axilla sentinel node #2, biopsy:
Lymph node, quadrasected and serially sectioned, single focus of carcinoma seen by light microscopy
and IHC for cytokeratin (focus of <10 cells, ITC).
D. Breast, right, total mastectomy:
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, well differentiated (1+2+1=4/9), spanning 2.0 cm, arising in a background
of ductal carcinoma in situ, intermediate to high grade.
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, separate focus, moderately differentiated (3+3+1=7/9), spanning 0.6 cm.
Extensive ductal carcinoma in situ, solid, cribriform and micropapillary type, with necrosis and
microcalcification, seen on 15 of 26 slides and extending to within 0.1 cm of deep margin. The
micropapillary DCIS is seen in the nipple duct sections.
Lobular carcinoma in situ, monomorphic type.
Intraductal papillomas and sclerosing adenosis with microcalcification.
Fibroadenoma
E. Skin, right breast, excision:
Fragments of skin.
CLINICAL INFORMATION: Right breast cancer.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in five parts.
Part A is received fresh from the operating room for frozen section diagnosis in a container labeled with the patient's
name and "Rt subnipple tissue R/O cancer". It consists of one piece of red soft tissue measuring 1.1 × 0.9 × 0.3 cm.
Page 1 of 5
.The specimen is entirely submitted in one cassette labeled AFS.
Part B is received fresh from the operating room for frozen section diagnosis in a container labeled with the patient's
name and "Right axillary sentinel lymph node #1". It consists of one piece of fatty tissue measuring 3.2 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm.
One lymph node is palpated measuring 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node is bisected. The specimen is
entirely submitted in four cassettes labeled BFS1-BFS2, B1 and B2. Please note: Three levels and cytokeratin stains
are ordered for the lymph node only.
Legend: BFS1-BFS2 = frozen section-lymph node, B1-B2 = remaining tissue.
Part C is received fresh from the operating room for frozen section diagnosis in a container labeled with the patient's
name and "Right axillary sentinel lymph node #2". It consists of one piece of fatty tissue measuring 2.8 x 1.9 x 1.1 cm.
One lymph node is palpated measuring 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node is quadrisected. The specimen
is entirely submitted in five cassettes labeled CFS1-CFS4 and C1. Please note: Three levels and cytokeratin stains are
ordered for the lymph node only.
Legend: CFS1-CFS4 = frozen section-lymph node, C1 = remaining tissue.
Part D is received unfixed in a container labeled with the patient's name and "Right breast mastectomy, stitch short
anterior subnipple tissue, stitch long = lateral". It consists of a right total skin sparing mastectomy specimen measuring
22.0 x 14.0 x 3.5 cm. A short suture is noted indicating the subareolar and a long suture is noted indicating the superior
(as per Dr.
the long suture was mistakenly labeled "lateral"). An underlying mass is palpable located 1.0 cm
from the subareolar. The subareolar is inked blue, the superficial margin is inked yellow and the deep margin is inked
black. The axillary tissue measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. No lymph nodes are palpable within it.
The specimen is serially sectioned at closely spaced intervals, revealing an area of white, cystic parenchyma measuring
6.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm located in the center, 0.5 cm from the deep margin and 0.2 cm from the superficial margin. Within
the cystic parenchyma is a firm, poorly circumscribed, white-tan mass measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm which comes to
within 0.6 cm from the deep margin and 1.3 cm from the superficial margin. At least four scattered yellow-white nodules
measuring from 0.5 cm to 0.8 cm in diameter are also seen within the cystic parenchyma located 0.3 cm from the deep
margin and 1.5 cm from the superficial margin and at least 1.0 cm from the mass. The remainder of the specimen is
composed of a moderate amount of breast tissue (60%) and a moderate amount of yellow fatty tissue (40%). Also
received in the container is one irregular piece of soft, fibrofatty, yellow-red tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. On cut
surface, no discrete lesions or lymph nodes are identified. Representative sections are submitted in 26 cassettes
labeled D1-D26. Please note: The specimen was placed in formalin at
LEGEND:
D1-D2 = Submucosal area
D3-D4 = Mass with adjacent deep margin
D5-D7 = Remaining portion of mass
D8 = Superficial margin closest to mass
=
D9-D10 Nodule closest to mass with adjacent surrounding tissue and deep margin
D11 = Remaining portion of nodule with adjacent surrounding tissue
D12-D15 = Surrounding nodules in cystic parenchyma
=
D16-D17 Cystic parenchyma
D18-D19 = Upper inner quadrant
D20-D21 = Lower inner quadrant
D22-D23 = Lower outer quadrant
D24-D25 = Upper outer quadrant
D26 = Fibrofatty tissue also received in the container.
Part E Is received unfixed in a container labeled with the patient's name and "Skin from mastectomy R breast". It
consists of a strip of rubbery, tan-brown skin measuring 11.6 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted in
one cassette labeled E1. Please note: The specimen was placed in formalin at
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
AFS: Benign breast tissue and large ducts. No carcinoma seen.
Page 2 of 5
BFS1, BFS2: No carcinoma seen.
CFS1, CFS2: No carcinoma seen.
CFS3, CFS4: No carcinoma seen.
Performed by: Resident:
Interpreted by: Attending:
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
1.
II.
III.
TYPE OF SPECIMEN: Right total mastectomy with sentinel node dissection.
LOCATION OF THE TUMOR:
Central.
TYPE OF NEOPLASM: Carcinoma, Invasive, Ductal - NOS (Nodule 1)
Well Differentiated, Total score 4
(Tubule Score 1, Nuclear Grade Score 2, Mitotic Score 1).
TUMOR SIZE: The tumor's greatest dimension 2.0 cm.
Carcinoma, Invasive, Ductal - NOS (Nodule 2)
Moderately Differentiated, Total score 7.
(Tubule Score 3, Nuclear Grade Score 3, Mitotic Score 1).
TUMOR SIZE: The tumor's greatest dimension 0.6 cm.
Ductal carcinoma in situ, nuclear grade 3, widespread 30%.
QUANTITATION:
Ductal carcinoma in situ is present in 15 of 26 slides of breast.
Intraductal solid subtype, cribriform, comedo, micropapillary/
VASCULAR SPACE INVASION: Present in lymphatics.
VI.
VII.
CALCIFICATION: Present in both malignant and benign areas.
VIII.
NIPPLE: Ducts involved by DCIS.
IX.
SKIN: Present, uninvolved by cancer.
X.
ADJACENT BREAST TISSUE: Cystic disease, proliferative with atypia.
XI.
MARGINS: Tumor distance from closest margin DCIS- <0.1 cm fromm deep margin.
XII.
AXILLARY LYMPH NODES: Sentinel - 2.
XIII.
POSITIVE LYMPH NODES: Sentinel - ITC only.
XV.
PATHOLOGIC STAGING (pTNM) AJCC 7th Edition: Reflects staging only of the current specimen. Ultimate
staging responsibility rests with the primary physician.
pT1c: Tumor more than 1.0 cm but not more than 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
pN0(ITC,i+): No regional lymph node metastasis on H & E histologically, (ie. Individual tumor cells seen,
none greater than 0.2 mm, positive IHC.
Page 3 of 5
COMMENT(S):
Case shown at
. This report has been reviewed electronically and signed on
Interpreted by: Attending:
'by.
The diagnosis was rendered by the attending pathologist.
Receptor Expression Analysis
INTERPRETATION
Date Ordered:
Test Performed on formalin fixed paraffin embedded section of: mastectomy
The results are for invasive carcinoma #1
Specimen part: D
Slide#: D3
Fixation: adequate.
Results:
Status: Signed Out
This tumor is considered positive for estrogen receptor expression (≥1 % of the cells are positive). The
specimen was adequate for evaluation for ER as per ASCO/CAP guidelines 2010. Approximately 75% of the
carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an anti-estrogen receptor antibody
) with an average intermediate intensity.
)
This tumor is considered positive for progesterone receptor expression (≥1% of the cells are positive). The
specimen was adequate for evaluation for PR as per ASCO/CAP guidelines 2010. Approximately 80% of the
carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an anti-progesterone receptor antibody
) with an average strong intensity.
1
Equivocal/indeterminate for HER2 expression. Her-2/neu over-expression has been evaluated, on a formalin fixed
paraffin embedded section, using the
(proprietary kit). Using the ASCO/CAP scoring criteria, the
score is: 2.
Invasive carcinoma #2:
This tumor is considered positive for estrogen receptor expression (≥1 % of the cells are positive). The
specimen was adequate for evaluation for ER as per ASCO/CAP guidelines 2010. Approximately 100 % of the
carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an anti-estrogen receptor antibody
SP1) with an average strong intensity.
This tumor is considered positive for progesterone receptor expression (≥ 1% of the cells are positive). The
specimen was adequate for evaluation for PR as per ASCO/CAP guidelines 2010. Approximately 100% of the
carcinoma cell nuclei stain with an immunohistochemical stain utilizing an anti-progesterone receptor antibody
1E2) with an average strong intensity.
Positive for HER2 overexpression. Her-2/neu over-expression has been evaluated, on formalin fixed paraffin
embedded sections, using the
(proprietary kit). Using the ASCO/CAP scoring criteria, the
score: 3.
Page 4 of 5
This procedure/addenda has been electronically reviewed and signed on
Interpreted by: Attending:
by.
/W 1/21/14
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Note
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
Reviewer Initials
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
-
Note: Immunochemistry testing performed at
was developed and ils performance characteristics determined by the
These tests were interpreted in conjunction with external positive and internal negative controls, unless otherwise noted, It has not been cleared or approved by the US
FDA. This last is used for clinical purposes only. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research.
END OF REPORT
Page 5 of 5
