Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Sura Path Final Report
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:
Surgical Pathology Final Report
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
- Priniary Tumar Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Priman Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer
CUALIFIED i DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
72/2/14
12/7/11
Final Diagnosis (Verified)
Distal left ureter, frozen section examination, excision:
Negative for neoplasm.
Distal right ureter, frozen section examination, excision:
Negative for neoplasm.
Additional prostatic apical tissue:
Benign prostatic glandular tissue with scattered areas of squamous metaplasia
involving the duct lumen, no invasive malignancy identified.
Radical cystoprostatectomy:
Infiltrating high-grade urothelial carcinoma with diffuse squamous
differentiation extending through entire bladder muscular wall and to
radial margin of surgical excision.
Bladder tumor measures 5.5 cm in maximum dimension and is positioned on
posterior bladder wall. Marked necrosis is present.
Prostate is negative for malignancy.
inked
the
Seminal vessicles are negative.
1C8-0-3
Left lymph node dissection:
Seven (7) negative lymph nodes.
Right lymph node dissection:
carcinoma, wrothelial, Nos
Site: bladdw, Nos
812013
0679
Four (4) negative lymph nodes.
fu 12/2/11
Printed by:
Printed on:
UUID:FFC0F91A-AC95-4E02-BE22-EBDAE89AB5EA
TCGA-GC-A316-01A-PR
Redacted
Page 1 of 3
Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
Comment: This large, partially necrotic, diffusely infiltrating, high-grade transitional cell
carcinoma shows diffuse areas of squamous differentiation. The tumor extends to the inked
radial margin of excision. This case corresponds to a pathological AJCC stage of T3a,NO.
Signature Line
(Electronically signed by)
Verified on:
Gross Description (Verified)
"FSA." All frozen section control tissue is submitted in cassette "FSA,".
"FSB." All frozen section control tissue is submitted in cassette "FSB,".
"C, Additional apical tissue." The specimen consists of 3 unoriented soft gray-pink fragments ranging in size from 1.6 x 1.6 x 0.7 cm to 2.4 x
1 x 0.8 cm. Inked black. "C1-C2," fragments, representative.
"D, Bladder." The specimen consists of an 11.8 x 9.5 x 8.6 cm bladder with attached fat. Attached is the prostate gland. Bilateral distal
ureters have previously been submitted for frozen section. The specimen is opened on the anterior aspect and there is a 5.5 x 3.5 cm soft
red-tan friable ulcerated mass on the posterior bladder wall which extends to the right aspect of the bladder. The mass grossly appears to
extend into the bladder musculature to a depth of 2.5 cm and grossly appears to abut the radial margin. The radial margin has been inked
black. The mass does not grossly appear to involve the left and right ureteral orifices. The remaining bladder mucosa is red-tan and
edematous and no additional areas of interest are grossly identified in the bladder. The attached prostate gland measures 4.2 x 4 x 1.8 cm.
The posterior apex will be inked orange. The remaining prostate is inked black. The seminal vesicles and vas deferens will be submitted at
their junction with the prostate. The prostatic parenchyma is tan and no discrete yellow masses are grossly identified. "D1," distal urethral
margin; "D2-D5," bladder mass with adjacent radial margin (NOTE: Cassette deeply represents 1 full-thickness section submitted in steps);
"D6," mass; "D7," left bladder mucosa; "D8," bladder dome; "D9," right bladder mucosa; "D10," trigone; "D11," left seminal vesicle and vas
deferens; "D12," right seminal vesicle and vas deferens; "D13," left anterior prostate; "D14," right anterior prostate; "D15," left posterior
prostate; "D18," right posterior prostate.
"E, Left lymph node." The specimen consists of a 3.6 x 3.6 x 2 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated tissue. On sectioning, 7 possible lymph
nodes are identified. These range in size from 0.3 to 1.5 cm. "E1-E3," fragments, representative.
"F, Right lymph node." The specimen consists of a 4.4 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated tissue. On sectioning, 4 possible lymph
nodes are identified. These range in size from 0.4 to 1.8 cm. "F1-F2," fragments, representative.
Printed by:
Printed on:
Page 2 of 3
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
* Final Report *
Received for research purposes is 1 yellow cassette labeled "
Slanature Line
Frozen Section Diagnosis (Verified)
FSA: Distal left ureter: No tumor noted.
FSB: Distal right ureter: No tumor noted.
Clinical Information (Verified)
This year-old white male is a patient with spina bifida who has been on lifelong intermittent catheterizations. The patient has a long history
of smoking (3 to 4 packs a day).
Completed Action List:
*
Order by
*
*VERIFY by
Order by
Page 3 of 3
Printed by:
(End of Report)
Printed on:
