UUID:164EE426-8661-404C-9E0F-4216A76253C8
TCGA-ZF-A9R9-01A-PR
Redacted
SPECIMEN
1 Right iliac lymph node.
2 - Left ureteric resection margin.
3-Bladder & prostate.
CLINICAL DETAILS
Invasive bladder cancer.
RELE
ICD0.3
Carcinoma, wothelial NOS 8120/3
not carcinoma, transitional cell Nos
Path
Suite, Bladder NOS
108 $67.9
905/2/14
Left ureter? is there evidence of tumour in distal part (clinically it appears
so) and does this extend to proximal part.
MACROSCOPY
1 - Enlarged node measuring 27 x 20 x 12 mm.
2- An orientated tubular structure 20 mm in length and up to 6 mm in dia. with
surrounding fatty tissue.
3 - Specimen consists of bladder (measuring 65 x 40 x 40 mm), prostate
(measuring 55 mm medio-lateral x 35 mm supero-inferiorly x 35 mm anterior-
posterior) and perivesical fat. The bladder contains an ulcerated lesion
measuring 25 x 20 mm involving the posterior and left lateral walls. On section
the tumour appears to extend through the wall to reach the perivesical fat and
reach the circumferential surgical resection margin posteriorly. No lymph nodes
are identified in the perivesical fat.
-
1 Right iliac lymph node;
FROZEN SECTION REPORT
1 - Frozen section report; metastatic carcinoma. Verbal report given to
anaesthetics at
on the
PARAFFIN SECTION REPORT
- Dr
and Dr
Paraffin sections confirm frozen section report of metastatic carcinoma. There
is extension into extracapsular tissue.
2 - Left ureteric resection margin;
FROZEN SECTION REPORT
2 Frozen section report; both proximal and distal ureteric resection margins
are normal with no carcinoma in situ. Report to
on
- Dr
PARAFFIN SECTION REPORT
surgeon at
Paraffin sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis of morphologically normal
ureteric tissue.
3 - Bladder and prostate; Sections from the macroscopically identified lesion
confirm a poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma arising from surface
epithelium and extending as tumour aggregates through the bladder wall to reach
the extravesical tissue. There is tumour within 1 mm of the circumferential
surgical resection margin.
There is extensive necrosis within the tumour and perineural and lymphovascular
invasion. There is no lymphocytic infiltrate at the tumour host interface.
Tumour is seen extending into the muscle wall of the ductus deferens.
Background urothelium is morphologically normal with no evidence of dysplasia or
carcinoma-in-situ.
Sections taken from the right ureteric resection margin show small tumour foci
within the soft tissue and may represent lymphovascular invasion.
The urethral resection margin of this specimen is morphologically normal with no
evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma-in-situ.
The sections from the right lobe of the prostate show foci of high grade PIN.
812013
Sections from the left lobe are morphologically normal. There is no evidence of
microacinar adenocarcinoma.
Please note the urethral resection margin and left external iliac nodes have
been processed as
SUMMARY
Cystoprostatectomy and lymph node dissection; the appearances are those of a
poorly differentiated (G3) transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder invading
perivesical soft tissue. There is tumour within 1 mm of the circumferential
surgical resection margin. No metastases are noted. G3 TCC pT3b pN2 pMx.
Pathologists -
DR
CONSULTANT
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
be 1/10/14
Yes
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
H
No
