UUID:07A1F163-55AF-4D64-AFD9-DEBDFF7CB2C6
TCGA-ZF-AA53-01A-PR
Redacted
Specimen Comments
SPECIMEN
1 - Bladder and prostate
CLINICAL DETAILS
Bladder cancer.
MACROSCOPY
=
Specimen comprises bladder and prostate measuring in total 160 mm supero-
inferiorly, 95 mm transverse, and 60 mm anterior-posterior. Total weight=
460g. The bladder contains an extensively necrotic polypoid tumour on the
posterior wall measuring at least 40 x 70 x 30 mm. The tumour is close to the
detrusor muscle and is 8 mm from the posterior serosal margin. There are
bilateral ureteric stumps measuring 5 x 4 mm each.
MICROSCOPY
There is a poorly differentiated, Grade 3, transitional carcinoma involving the
lateral and posterior wall, close to and surrounding the right ureter. It
invades muscularis propria. It extends to within 9 mm of the prostate, but
there is no convincing evidence of invasion into the perivesical fat. Squamous
differentiation is noted, but elsewhere the tumour has a spindle
cell/sarcomatoid appearance. It does not show the lymphoepithelioma-like
appearance suggested on the previous biopsy.
No vascular invasion has been identified. The circumferential margin is clear
of tumour. Both ureteric resection margins are clear of tumour. The uninvolved
bladder wall is severely inflamed and focally denuded of urothelium. Where
present, it shows some atypia but there is no evidence of carcinoma-in-situ.
Although the urethral resection margin is clear of transitional bladder
carcinoma, there is a focus of prostatic adenocarcinoma at this margin (Block
1A). There are further multiple foci of Gleason score 3+3 = 6 prostatic
adenocarcinoma in both right and left prostatic lobes, measuring at least 14 mm
in dimension. High grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, PIN, is also
present. There is no evidence of extracapsular extension.
SUMMARY
1 - Transitional cell carcinoma of bladder G3 pT2, completely excised.
2- Adenocarcinoma of prostate, Gleason score 3+3 = 6, pT2, at urethral
resection margin.
Ref:
Pathologists -
path
ICDO 3
Marcinoma urothelial NOS 8120/3
Carcinoma, tranational call NOS 812013
Site: Bladderwall NOS C679
JN 4/30/14
Date of last BCG
Criteria
hu 3/21/14
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Neted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
