Results
Patient Information
Patient Name
Result Information
Status
Final resulti
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Pathology
MRN
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN,
Provider Status
Reviewed
Sex
Male
DOB
UUID:4D04BC45-D78F-41DB-8E3B-70763300611A
TCGA-GU-A767-01A-PR
Redacted
Lab
Final Diagnosis
A. Right distal ureter, excision:
- Segment of benign ureter
- No carcinoma is seen
- Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed on permanent sections
B. Left distal ureter, excision:
- Segment of benign ureter
- No carcinoma is seen
- Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed on permanent sections
C. Urinary bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:
Urinary Bladder
CACF
ICD-O
Carginoma, urothelial 8120/3
Carcinoma, urothelial
micropapillary 8/31/3
Site Bladder 
NOS
path
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with prominent micropapillary
features, extensively involving bladder wall and extending into prostatic
urethra, in a background of in situ flat and papillary urothelial carcinoma, see
note
- Urothelial carcinoma invades muscularis propria and extends into perivesical
adipose tissue (pT3)
-
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in three pelvic lymph nodes (see parts D and
E)
- Background urothelium with chronic inflammation and biopsy site changes
- Pathologic TNM stage: pT3b N2 MX
- See CAP template below for further details
Prostate:
- High grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HG-PIN)
CAP Template for Carcinoma of the Urinary Bladder:
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Site: Anterior and posterior bladder walls
Right and left lateral walls
Trigone
Dome
Tumor Size:
0679
Bladder would NOS C679
J4J3/13/13
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
w 8/5/13
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
nor Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Nates
Case is (circle):
Revie..er Initials
QUALINED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
$30/13
iva
Greatest dimension: 7.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 6.5 x 1.5 cm
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma with micropapillary
features
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Histologic Grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO 2004/ISUP): High-grade
Tumor Configuration: Papillary / micropapillary
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades perivesical tissue, macroscopically
(extravesical mass)
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma in situ
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT): pT3b: Tumor invades perivesical tissue, macroscopically
(extravesical mass)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastases in true
pelvis
examined: 6
Involved: 3
Specify: Number
Specify: Number
Distant Metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings:
Inflammation, regenerative and biopsy site changes
Ancillary Studies: Blocks C5 and C10 can be used for additional studies, if
needed.
The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
edition.
-
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one of three lymph nodes (1/3)
E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in two of three lymph nodes (2/3)
NotePart C: Sections show a large urothelial tumor extensively involving all
bladder walls and extending into the prostatic urethra. The tumor extends along
prostatic urethral urothelium and shows areas of focal (urethral) lamina propria
Invasion but no involvement of the prostatic stroma itself. Tumor invades
through the bladder muscularis propria into perivesical adipose tissue (pT3).
The tumor shows prominent micropapillary areas with back to back lacunar spaces
containing small tumor nests comprising
60% of tumor. Areas of vascular and
Page 2 of 6
perineural invasion are seen.
Multiple deeper sections are obtained in the evaluation of this case.
Select slides from the case are reviewed with Dr.
Clinical History
Bladder cancer
Cystoprostatectomy with ureteroileal conduct
Source:
A: Right distal ureter for margin
B: Left distal ureter for margin
C: Bladder and prostate
D: Left pelvic lymph node
E: Right pelvic lymph node
Gross Description
Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and designated "right distal ureter for margin". The specimen consists of a
pink-tan segment of ureter 0.2 cm in length, 0.4 cm in diameter.
Section key:
A1 - specimen entirely submitted
Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and designated "left distal ureter for margin". The specimen consists of a
single pink-tan and segment of ureter 0.2 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter.
Section key:
B1 specimen entirely submitted
Specimen C
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, and vas deferens
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Fixative: Received fresh, subsequently placed in formalin (tissue procurement
retained a sample of tumor)
Dimensions:
Bladder: superior to inferior 8.0 cm, left to right 7.0 cm, anterior to
posterior 4.5 cm, ureter stumps (left 1.0 cm in length, 0.8 cm in diameter;
right 1.0 cm in length, 0.7 cm in diameter, prostate (apex to base 3.6 cm,
anterior to posterior 3.0 cm, left to right 5.0 cm), left attached seminal
vesicle 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm; right attached seminal vesicle 2.0 x 1.5 x 2.0 cm;
left attached vas deferens 4.0 cm in length, 0.3 cm in diameter; right attached
vas 
deferens 4.0 cm in length, 0.3 cm in diameter.
Description of findings:
Tumor: Large fungating, friable, pink-tan micropapillary mass invading the
entire 
bladder, no normal appearing bladder mucosa identified. The bladder mass
extends 
into the prostatic urethra to within 1.5 cm of the urethral margin. The
urethral 
margin is submitted en face. The bladder mass abuts both ureteral
orifices. The bladder mass measures 7.0 x 6.5 cm and up to 1.5 cm in thickness.
The mass 
invades the muscularis and into the posterior fat to within 0.5 cm of
the 
peritonealized posterior surface. The mass does not grossly involve the
seminal vesicles 
or vas deferens, or prostate.
Uninvolved mucosa: The entire effacement of normal bladder.
Prostate, seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia: The prostate parenchyma is
nodular yellow
-tan. The seminal vesicles and vas deferentia are grossly
Page 3 of 6
unremarkable.
Ink code:
Bladder:
Anterior: blue
Posterior: orange
Prostate:
Left side: blue
Right side: orange
Anterior: green
Lymph nodes: No lymph nodes are grossly identified.
Section key:
C1 urethral margin, submitted en face
C2, C3 longitudinal section of prostatic urethra to prostatic apex, proximal
side
C4 left ureteral orifice
C5 right ureteral orifice
C6 left vas deferens margin
C7 right vas deferens margin
C8, C9 posterior wall, deepest invasion of tumor
C10 bladder trigone
C11 bladder, left lateral wall
C12 bladder, right lateral wall
C13 bladder dome
C14 anterior bladder
C15 C18 representative sections from left side of prostate from apex to base
C19 C22 representative sections of right side of prostate from apex to base
Specimen D is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and
designated "left pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of three irregular
fragments of fibrofatty tissue 5.0 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Thorough
examination reveals three suspected lymph nodes ranging from 1.0 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. Two of the lymph nodes are red-brown. One of the lymph nodes
is firm and off-white.
Section key:
D1 D3 one bisected lymph node per cassette
Specimen E is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and
designated "right pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of three irregular
fragments of fibrofatty tissue 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Thorough
examination reveals three suspected lymph nodes ranging from 1.5 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. One of the lymph nodes has a diffuse off-white appearance.
The second lymph node has multiple foci of off-white, firm nodularities.
Section key:
E1 E3 one bisected lymph node per cassette
Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.
A-E. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
Intraoperative Diagnosis
Time in:
Ime out:
AFS1, Right distal ureter margin: "Negative for invasive carcinoma, focal
atypia"
BFS1, Left distal ureter margin: "Negative for invasive carcinoma, focal atypia"
Reported to Dr.
***Electronically Signed Out By
Page 4 of 6
Page 546 not relavant
in noth
