Dations
Referring Physician:
DOB:
Ref#:
Age:
Hosp#:
Gender: F
Provider Group:
Date of Service:
Date Received:
Outpatient
Room:
Bed:
AAAAA
UUID:1A0D203A-BC4B-441F-97F6-D1FF7E959262
TCGA-AC-A3TN-01A-PR
Redacted
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis:
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malign..ncy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Casey's (circle);
A., C, D.) RIGHT BREAST AND AXILLARY SENTINEL LYMPH NODE, Reviewer
MASTECTOMY AND SENTINEL LYMPH NODE BIOPSY:
-
- Multicentric invasive lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1-2.
-
QUALIFIED
DE Reviewed.
JJ3130112
- The area involved by invasive carcinoma measures approximately 8 cm in
diameter.
- See comment.
Two axillary lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/2).
-
This includes one sentinel lymph node and one non-sentinel lymph node.
- Resection margins are free of tumor. Invasive carcinoma is at least 1 cm
from all margins. The closest margin is the inferior, which is approximately 1 cm
from carcinoma.
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), classic type, low nuclear grade,
widespread throughout the right breast.
- Sites of previous biopsy identified.
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1.
Type and grade (in situ ): Lobular carcinoma in situ, low nuclear grade.
Primary tumor: pT3(m)
Pathologic stage: IIB.
Regional lymph nodes: pN0(i-)(sn).
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: Negative (RO).
ICD-03
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
3/30
carcinoma lobular, infiltrating
852013
Site: breast, Nos
C50.9
4-3-12
COMMENT: In addition to the two areas of invasive lobular carcinoma previously
biopsied, there is a large area of invasive lobular carcinoma in roughly the center of
the breast that corresponds to the abnormal area detected in the right breast MRI
dated
(the suspicious area measured 8.1 cm in diameter on MRI). Grossly,
this was an ill-defined area relatively denser than the surrounding breast tissue.
B. LEFT BREAST, PROPHYLACTIC MASTECTOMY:
Case #:
Penont
Printed:
Pathology Report - Page 1/6
Phone:
Patient Nam
Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)
Page 1
Dntinus.
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
- Focal atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH, in lower outer quadrant).
- Subareolar duct ectasia.
- Focal fibrosis, cysts and mild usual type ductal hyperplasia.
- Discrete focus of scar tissue in central inferior breast.
Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook.
This staging also incorporates:
Previous biopsy:
Breast profile:
'
and CAP protocol,
Case #:
Printed:
Acct No..
Patient Nam
Pathology Report - Page 2/6
Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)
Page 2
Case #:
Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen laterality:
Total breast.
Mastectomy.
Sentinel lymph node.
Intact specimen.
Right.
24.4 x 21.8 x 6.4 cm.
Specimen size:
INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:
Invasive tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:
Mitotic count:
Lymphatic invasion:
Approximately 8 cm in diameter
Central, in addition to areas previously biopsied
(12:00 and 9:30 aspects of right breast).
Multicentric
Invasive lobular carcinoma.
1 of 3.
3 of 3.
1-2 of 3.
1 of 3.
1 mitosis in 10 high power fields.
Not identified.
MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LCIS):
Skin:
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:
INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (pT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Tumor Stage:
Negative.
Approximately 1 cm.
Inferior
All other margins at least 1 cm from tumor.
Absent.
Present, extensive.
Unremarkable.
Focal subareolar duct ectasia. Subareolar foci of
invasive lobular carcinoma present.
Not applicable.
pT3
pNO(i-)(sn).
Not applicable.
11B
RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:
Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:
Biomarkers performed on
two separate core needle biopsies.
95%.
80% and 50%, respectively.
1+.
Case #:
Printed:
Page 3
Phone
This ranart continuae.. (FINAL)
Acct No
Patient Nam
Pathology Report - Page 3/6
Page 3
Patient
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Ki-67 proliferative index:
Source of Specimen:
A. Sentinel lymph node; Sentinel node #1, Right breast
B. Breast;Left
C. Breast; Right breast-additional inferior margin
D. Breast;Right
Clinical History/Operative Dx:
1-2%.
སྐྱལ་
Signed by
Neoplasm of right breast.
Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Sentinel node #1 right breast
touch prep A diagnosis: Negative for carcinoma. (Dr.
The
intraoperative interpretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at
Gross Description:
A. The specimen is labeled sentinel node #1 right breast and is received without fixative. It consists
of a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm lymph node. It is serially sectioned and touch imprints are obtained. The node is
submitted for permanent section in cassette A1.
B. The specimen is labeled left breast tissue and is received in formalin. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen which weighs 1,258 grams. A black suture marks lateral. With this orientation, the specimen
Case #:
Page 4
Printed:
This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:
MR No.
Acct No. -
Patient Nam
Pathology Report - Page 4/6
) - Page 4
Case #:
T
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
measures 20.5 cm from superior to inferior, 29 cm from medial to lateral, and 4.5 cm from superficial to
deep. There is a broad overlying semi-circular portion of tan skin measuring 23 x 14.5 cm. In the medial
inferior edge of the skin, there is a 4.5 cm areola with a protuberant 1.4 cm nipple. The skin is otherwise
unremarkable. The anterior-superior margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and
the posterior margin, which partially consists of smooth facial appearing tissue, is inked black. The
specimen is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal lobulated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white
fibrous parenchyma. In the central inferior portion of the breast, along the superior medial edge of the
areola, there is an area of fibrous parenchyma which has a slightly stellate appearance but is soft and
rubbery. This stellate area is 2 cm in maximum dimension. It is 4 cm or greater from the deep, inferior,
and superior margin and is 2 cm from the closest skin. The breast parenchyma in the lower outer quadrant
has a rough fine nodular feel but there are no areas which have a stellate or retracted appearance. There
are no lymph nodes identified within the lateral portion of the excision. Representative sections are
submitted. Section summary:
B1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
B2-B3) stellate fibrous parenchyma central inferior breast,
84) representative upper inner quadrant,
B5) lower inner quadrant,
B6) upper outer quadrant,
B7-B8) lower outer quadrant, including representative lower outer quadrant deep margin.
C. The specimen is labeled right breast tissue, additional inferior margin and is received in formalin. It
consists of two irregular fragments of lobulated fatty tissue with an aggregate weight of 52 grams. The
larger specimen measures 10.5 x 4.8 x 1.6 cm and the smaller specimen measures 4.2 x 2.8 x 1.7 cm. The
surgical margins of these specimens are not designated. The larger specimen is inked black and the
smaller specimen is inked green. Serial sections of both specimens reveal predominantly lobulated soft to
pale yellow fatty tissue without palpable areas of nodularity. Representative sections of the larger
specimen are submitted in cassettes C1-C3. Representative sections of the smaller specimen are submitted
in cassette C4. Following review of the initial slides, additional sections are submitted in C5-C9.
D. The specimen is labeled right breast tissue and is received without fixative. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen weighing 1,285 grams. A black suture is present and is not otherwise designated but is arbitrarily
assumed to represent lateral. With this orientation, the specimen measures 24.4 cm from medial to lateral,
21.8 cm from superior to inferior, and 6.4 cm from superficial to deep. There is an overlying broad
elliptical portion of tan skin which measures 24 x 16 cm. In the medial inferior skin, there is a 4 cm areola
and 1.5 cm protuberant nipple. The skin shows two small areas of hemorrhagic discoloration which are
located 3 and 3.5 cm superior to the nipple. No other skin lesions are identified. The anterior-superior
margin is inked blue, the anterior- inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists
partially of smooth facial tissue, is inked black.
The breast is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal a firm stellate appearing tumor mass within the
central lateral breast, approximately 4.5 cm lateral to the nipple. This stellate area is 1.2 cm in maximum
dimension. Centrally, within this stellate mass is a biopsy site clip. This stellate mass is 3.5 cm from the
closest inferior margin, 11 cm from the closest superior margin, 14 cm from the closest medial margin, and
11 cm from the closest lateral margin. It is 3.5 cm from the closest deep margin and approximately 3 cm
Case #:
Printed:
Page 5
This report continues... (FINAL)
Pathology Report
Page 5/6
Phone:
Patient Nan
) - Page 5
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
from the skin. A second palpably firm and stellate appearing mass is located in the superior central breast
approximately 4 cm superior to the nipple. This second area measures 0.8 cm in maximum dimension. It
is 4 cm from the closest deep margin, 3.5 cm from the closest skin, 6.5 cm from the closest inferior margin,
9 cm from the closest superior margin, 10 cm from the closest medial margin, and greater than 10 cm from
the lateral margin. A twisted biopsy site clip is also embedded within this stellate mass.
The central breast tissue has an ill-defined firm area measuring approximately 7-8 cm in diameter. This
area of firmness involves multiple quadrants of the breast. In the far lateral portion of the breast, there is a
firm 1.8 cm lymph node.
Representative tissue of the central lateral stellate mass is retained for research purposes. Representative
sections are submitted. Section summary:
D1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,
D2-D3) complete cross-section of central lateral palpable mass,
D4) additional section of superior edge of central lateral tumor,
D5-D6) sections of central superior turnor mass (biopsy site clip in cassette D5),
D7) central superior deep margin,
D8) central lateral deep margin,
D9) representative upper inner quadrant,
D10) representative medial lower inner quadrant,
D11) representative lateral lower inner quadrant,
D12) representative lateral lower inner quadrant and closest anterior inferior margin.
D13) upper outer quadrant,
D14) lower outer quadrant,
D15-D16) lymph node lateral portion of excision.
Microscopic Description:
1
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Immunohistochemical stain:
showing no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
Appropriate positive and negative controls reviewed.
B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
Case #:
Printed:
Pathology Report
-
MR No..
"
Page 6/6
Phone:
Acct No. -
Patient Nar
Page 6
END OF REPORT (FINAL)
Page 6
