Results
Patient Information
'
Patient Name
MRN
Result Information
Status
Final
Entry Date
Component Results
Component
Surgical Patholnav
Patient Name:
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Provider Status
Ordered
Sex
DOB
-
Final Diagnosis
A. Right distal ureter, biopsy:
-
Segment of benign ureter
No carcinoma or dysplasia is seen
- Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed on permanent sections
B. Left distal ureter, biopsy:
- Segment of benign ureter
-
No carcinoma or dysplasia is seen
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed on permanent sections
C. Urinary bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:
Lab
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial NOS
812013
Sate Bladder anterin wall
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, invasive into muscularis propria and
predominantly involving anterior bladder wall
- Tumor measures 4.7 cm in greatest dimension (macroscopic measurement)
- All surgical margins are free of carcinoma and dysplasia
- Nineteen pelvic lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/19; see
parts D, E and F)
- TNM pathologic stage: pT2b NO Mx
- Bladder with acute and chronic inflammation and reactive urothelial atypia,
biopsy site changes, cystitis cystica and focal intestinal metaplasia
- Benign prostatic and seminal vesicle tissue with patchy acute inflammation
· Urethral margin with patchy necrosis, acute inflammation and reactive
urothelial atypia
• Frozen section diagnosis of urethral margins is confirmed on permanent
sections
- See CAP template below for further details
CAP Template for carcinoma of the urinary bladder:
Specimen: Bladder and prostate
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Site: Anterior bladder wall
Tumor Size: 4.7 cm in greatest dimension
Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma
8/13/13
0673
UUID:55AD4C75-61D8-4377-A4F0-1311CFD6ACA8
TCGA-GU-A764-01A-PR
Redacted
Criteria
8/5/13 سال
Diagnosis Discrepancy
umary Fumor Site Discrepancy
PAA Discrepancy
Por Malignancy History
Qual Syn honous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Ini.als
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed
DISQUALBILD
8/5/3
Page 1 of 6
UL
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None Identified
Histologic Grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO 2004/ISUP): High-grade
Tumor Configuration: Ulcerated
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Absent
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT): pT2b:
muscle)
Tumor invades deep muscularis propria (detrusor
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO:
No lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number
examined: 19
Specify: Number
involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (PM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Urothelial inflammation, biopsy site changes,
focal intestinal metaplasia
Ancillary Studies: Not done. Blocks C5 & C6 can be used for additional
studies, if needed.
The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
edition.
D. Right pelvic lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/7)
E. Left common iliac and presacral lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4)
F. Left pelvic lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
- Eight lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/8)
Clinical History
Bladder cancer
Radical cystectomy, orthotopic neobladder diversion, possible ileal conduit.
Source:
A: Right distal ureter margin
B: Left distal ureral margin
C: Bladder and prostate
D: Right pelvic lymph nodes
E: Common ileacs and presacral
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes
Page 2 of 6
Gross Description
Specimen A received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name and
"right distal ureteral margin". The specimen is a pink-tan ring-shaped tissue
fragment measuring 0.4 cm in diameter, 0.2 cm in length. The tissue is entirely
submitted for frozen section, subsequently entirely submitted in A1.
Specimen B received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name and
"left distal ureteral margin". The specimen is a pink-tan ring-shaped soft
tissue fragment measuring 0.6 cm in diameter, 0.3 cm in length. The tissue is
entirely submitted for frozen section, subsequently entirely submitted in B1.
Specimen C received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "bladder
prostate".
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureteral stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles
The patient's name, requisition, and specimen containers all match.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Fixative: Received fresh, later placed in formalin
Dimensions: Bladder superior to inferior 8.0 cm, right to left 7.0 cm, anterior
to posterior 2.8 cm. Prostate superior to inferior 2.5 cm, right to left 3.2
cm, anterior to posterior 2.7 cm. The right ureteral stump 2.2 cm in length and
0.5 cm in diameter. The left ureteral stump 3.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter.
Description of findings:
Tumor: The anterior bladder wall reveals a hemorrhagic ulcerated firm tumor
mass measuring 4.7 cm superior to inferior, and 2.9 cm left to right. The
central portion of the tumor is ulcerated, hemorrhagic and necrotic. On
sectioning, dense gray-white solid apparent tumor tissue can be seen invading
the full-thickness of the muscularis; however, does not appear grossly to have
extended beyond the overlying perivesicular adipose tissue. The posterior
bladder wall has a focally hemorrhagic somewhat edematous appearance. The
bladder lining in the dome appears grossly unremarkable. The prostate has a
normal gray-white lobulated, somewhat spongy appearance. The urethral lining is
red-brown, friable, and appears necrotic. The seminal vesicles appear grossly
unremarkable. No lymph nodes are identified within the attached perivesicular
adipose tissue.
Ink Code: Anterior bladder wall blue, posterior black. Prostate right side
orange, left side blue.
Section key:
C1 urethral margin #1 frozen section
C2 urethral margin #2 frozen section
C3 right ureteral resection margin and ureteral orifice
C4 left ureteral resection margin and left ureteral orifice
C5-C9 sections of tumor
C10, C11 sections of posterior bladder wall
C12 bladder dome
C13 left lateral wall
C14 right lateral wall
C15 trigone
C16 right prostate apex sectioned radially
C17, C18 right prostate
C19 left prostate apex sectioned radially
C20,C21 left prostate
C22 right seminal vesicles and vas deferens
C23 left seminal vesicles and vas deferens
Comment: Fresh tissue was obtained for tissue procurement
Specimen D received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right
pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of two irregular fragments of
focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow adipose tissue measuring in aggregate 8.5 x
Page 3 of 6
3.5 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals eight apparent
lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.7-2.6 cm. The specimen is submitted as
follows:
D1 one node bisected
D2 one node bisected
D3 one node bisected
D4 one node bisected
D5 one node bisected
D6 three whole nodes
Specimen E received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left common
illac and presacral pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of three
fragments of focally hemorrhagic lobulated adipose tissue measuring in aggregate
4.0 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm. Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals four apparent
lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.6-2.9 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted
as follows:
E1 one node bisected
E2 three whole nodes
Specimen F received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left pelvic
lymph nodes". The specimen consists of multiple fragments of focally
hemorrhagic lobulated adipose tissue measuring in aggregate 4.8 x .40 x 1.4 cm.
Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals eight apparent lymph nodes ranging
in size from 0.4-2.4 cm. The nodes are submitted as follows:
F1 one node bisected
F2 one node bisected
F3 one node bisected
F4 one node bisected
F5 one node bisected
F6 three whole nodes
Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.
A-F. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
Intraoperative Diagnosis
Time in:
Time out:
A1, Right distal ureter margin biopsy: "Negative for carcinoma or high grade
dysplasia".
Time in:
Time out:
'
B1, Left distal ureter: "Negative for carcinoma or high grade dysplasia".
Time in:
Time out:
C1, Bladder and prostate urethral margin: "Necrotic tissue with scant viable
epithelium with focal atypia, favor reactive, cannot rule out dysplasia".
***Electronically Signed Out By
Results
Pathology Report - Scan on
Result History
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN
Collection Information
*: Intraoperative Consultation Report
- Order Result History Report.
Page 4 of 6
