Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Surgical Pathology Report
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Physician:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. Sentinel node #1 Count #
FS:
Metastatic carcinoma to lymph node (1/1) with extracapsular extension.
B. Sentinel node #2 count
-
S:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
C. Sentinel node #3 count
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
D. Sentinel node #4 count
FS:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
E. Sentinel node #5 count
-
-
FS:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
F. Sentinel node #6 count
->
-
FS:
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.
G. Axillary fat (perm):
No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
H. Skin right breast:
-
Skin with no specific pathologic change.
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos
Site: breast, NOS C50.9
8500/3
2/8/11
ん
1. Right breast lumpectomy (short stitch superior, long lateral) fresh:
-
UUID:E8B860F6-F3FD-4FDF-8467-8988646C2F00
TCGA-EW-A1]1-01A-PR
Redacted
Invasive poorly differentiated ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 3 (3 + 3 + 3), 3.5 cm.
- Lymphovascular space invasion is not identified.
· Specimen margins are negative for tumor.
J. Additional deep margin (perm):
No malignancy seen.
K. Right axillary contents (perm):
-
No malignancy seen in ten lymph nodes (0/10).
L. Left breast tissue (perm):
No malignancy seen.
Surgical Pathology Tumor Summary
Specimen: partial breast
Procedure: Excision without wire-guided localization
Lymph node sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes, axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 9.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 8 x 5.5 cm
Specimen Laterality: Right
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 3.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 3 x 3 cm
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Histologic type of invasion: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
Glandular (Acinar)/tubular Differentiation: Score 3: <10% of tumor are forming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli exhibiting marked variation in size and shape,
occasionally with very large and bizarre forms.
Mitotic Count: Score 3
Overall Grade: Grade 3: scores of 8 or 9
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified
Number of lymph nodes examined: 6
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and non-sentinel): 17
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastasis (>0.2 cm): 1
Extranodal extension: Present
Method of evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H & E) one level, immunohistochemistry
PT2: Tumor >20 mm but <50 mm in greatest dimension
PN1a: Metastases in 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes, at least 1 metastasis greater than 2.0 mm
Distant metastasis: not applicable
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Progesterone Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Immunoperoxidase studies: Performed on another specimen
1. immunoreactive tumor cells present (>1%)
immunoreactive tumor cells present (>1%)
, negative (score 0)
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically use indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: 105-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485 HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9=CMV, F39.4.1 AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
As the attending pathologist, I attest that 1: (1) Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (8) Rendered the diagnosis(OS).
Status: Signed Out
Addendum Diagnosis
B.
C.
D.
E.
Immunohistochemistry for Keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.
Immunohistochemistry for Keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.
Immunohistochemistry for Keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.
Immunohistochemistry for Keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.
Intraoperative Consultation
AFS.
Sentinel node #1 Count #
FS:
One lymph node with metastatic carcinoma.
BFS.
Sentinel node #2 count
FS:
Page 2 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
One lymph node, no carcinoma seen.
CFS.
Sentinel node #3 count
DFS.
Adipose tissue only. No lymph node identified grossly.
Seninel node #4 count:
FS:
One lymph node, no carcinoma seen.
EFS.
Sentinel node #5 count
FS:
One lymph node, no carcinoma seen.
FFS.
Sentinel node #6 count
FS:
One lymph node, no carcinoma seen.
Clinical History:
Patient is a
female with right breast cancer.
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Right breast cancer.
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Sentinel node #1 Count #
B: Sentinel node #2 count
FS
FS
C: Sentinel node #3 count
i
D: Seninel node #4 count a
FS
E: Sentinel node #5 count
FS
F: Sentinel node #6 count
FS
G: Axillary fat (perm)
H: Skin right breast
I: Right breast lumpectomy (short stitch superior, long lateral) fresh
J: Additional deep margin (perm)
K: Right axillary contents (perm)
L: Left breast tissue (perm)
Gross Description:
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #1 count #
0.2 cm. The cassettes are submitted as follows:
Submitted for frozen section
Remainder of the tissue
A.
1
2
B.
C.
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #2 count
FS" consists of pale yellow soft tissue measuring 1 x 0.3 x
FS" consists of light brown fragments 49 count measuring 1
x 0.2 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The cassettes are submitted as follows:
Submitted for frozen section
1
2
Remainder of the tissue.
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #3 count
specimen submitted in toto in two cassettes.
Received fresh and labeled "seninel node #4 count
Specimen as follows:
D.
1
2
Submitted for frozen section.
Remainder of tissue
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #5 count
The specimen is submitted as follows:
E.
1
Submitted for frozen section
I consists of light brown soft tissue measuring 2 x 1 x 1 cm. The
FS" consists of pale white tissue measuring 1 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm.
FS" consists of sift white fragment measuring 1 x 0,3 x 0.2 cm.
Page 3 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
F.
G.
H.
I.
2
Remainder of tissue.
Received fresh and labeled “sentinel node #6 count FS" consists of light brown fragment measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2
cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:
1
2
Submitted for frozen section
Remainder of tissue
Received in formalin and labeled "axillary fat (perm)" consists of yellow brown soft tissue measuring 4 x 2 x 3 cm in
aggregate. The entire specimen is submitted in toto in eight cassettes.
Received in formalin and labeled "skin right breast" consists of skin tag measuring 5 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm. A representative
section of the skin tag is submitted in one cassette.
Received in formalin and labeled "right breast lumpectomy (short stitch superior, long lateral) fresh" consists of breast
tissue mass measuring 186 grams and measures 9.5 cm medial to lateral, 5.5 cm inferior superior and 8 cm anterior to
posterior. It is round to oval in shape. It is yellow in color and soft in consistency. The specimen has sutures for
orientation. The specimen is inked as follows: anterior yellow; superior blue; posterior black; inferior green; lateral orange
and medial red. Serial sectioning of the specimen reveals a well defined round to oval mass measuring 3 x 3 x 3.5 cm. It
is hard in consistency. It occupies 20% of the entire specimen. The nearest margin is at the superior margin which is 1.5
cm from the mass. Remaining margins are away from the mass. There is an area of fibrosis which is situated anterior to
the mass; it is 1 cm away from the mass. The area of fibrosis measures 1 x 1 cm. The breast parenchyma in between
the mass and the fibrosis is normal. The remaining breast parenchyma consists of the fat to stroma ratio 90:10. The
cassettes are submitted as follows:
J.
K.
1
Superior margin
2
Inferior margin
3
Anterior margin
4
Posterior margin
5
Medial margin
6
Lateral margin
7-10
11
Area of fibrosis
12
Representative sections of the tumor
Breast parenchyma between the tumor and fibrosis.
Received in formalin and labeled "additional deep margin (perm)" consists of two yellow fragments soft in consistency
measuring 1 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The entire specimen is submitted in toto in two cassettes.
Received in formalin and labeled 'right axillary contents (perm)" consists of a yellow brown soft tissue measuring 9 x 7 x 2
cm. Ten possible lymph nodes are extracted from the specimen and submitted in six cassettes. One lymph node which
measures 1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, bisected and submitted in cassette 1.
2
3
4&5
6
One lymph node bisected.
Two lymph nodes
Three lymph nodes
One lymph node
Received in formalin and labeled "left breast tissue (perm)" consists of a breast mass measuring 465 grams and
measures 8 x 5 x 2 cm in greatest dimension. It has a skin ellipse which measures 4 x 1.5 cm. The entire specimen other
than skin is inked black. Serial sectioning of the mass it reveals fibrofatty tissue with fat to stoma ratio 70:30. No gross
lesions are 
identified.
1-5
6
Representative section of the fibrofatty tissue
Skin tag
ICD-9(s):
174.8 196.3
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Turnor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History,
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: //}_X}\\
to
Page 4 of 4
