UUID:55259128-2D24-433B-A556-632B9D1D0E6F
TCGA-FD-A5C0-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: Male
Race: White
Pathology Report:
A. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:
-
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, Urothelial
812013
Path Site Bladder, posterior and
Lateral Walls C67.8
COCFSite: Bladder, posterior Wall
- Four of eleven lymph nodes, positive for metastatic carcinoma (4/11).
- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 16 mm, with extranodal
extension.
- Metastatic tumor includes urothelial carcinoma and small cell carcinoma
components, see comment.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Twelve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/12).
C. Urinary bladder, prostate & seminal vesicle; cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade conventional urothelial carcinoma (50%) admixed with
small cell carcinoma (50%) component, invading thru the bladder wall and into
the perivesical soft tissue, see pathologic parameters.
- Bladder mucosa with extensive urothelial carcinoma in situ.
- Prostate with prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason 3+4=7, with focal
extraprostatic extension, see pathologic parameters.
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one of one perivesical lymph node
(1/1).
D. Left distal ureter; dissection:
0674
JW 12/24/12
-
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive mixed conventional urothelial carcinoma (50%) and small
cell carcinoma (50%), see comment.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Invasive carcinoma: solitary, 5 cm, right posterior and
lateral walls; In situ carcinoma: multifocal, dome, anterior, posterior and left
lateral walls.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (5/24), with extranodal extension.
9. pTNM: pT3b,N2,MX.
his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason Score: 3+4=7.
2. Perineural Invasion: Present.
3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone left.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 15%.
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.
7. Extraprostatic Extension: Present.
8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/24).
12. pTNM: pT3a,N0,MX.
is Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
Comment
The lymph node metastasis contains both urothelial and small cell carcinoma
components. The urothelial carcinoma component in the lymph node focally
exhibits micropapillary feature, which is not exhibited by the urothelial
carcinoma in the bladder.
Immunohistochemical stains performed show that the small cell carcinoma
component is diffusely and strongly positive for synaptophysin, confirming the
diagnosis. Controls appropriate.
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD
Electronically Signed Out by [], MD
Clinical History:
Patient is a
-year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing radical
cystoprostatectomy.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes
C: Bladder, prostate & seminal vesicle
D: Left distal ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in four containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rubbery
lobulated yellow fibroadipose tissue measuring 9 x 5.3 x 1.9 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph node candidates. Eleven lymph node candidates are identified
measuring 0.4-3.4 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates are
entirely submitted as follows:
A1: 4 lymph node candidates
A2: 2 lymph node candidates
A3-A4: One lymph node candidate, bisected, each cassette
A5-A6: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette
A7-A8: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette
A9-A11: One lymph node candidate, sectioned
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of lobulated
yellow fibroadipose tissue measuring 7.5 x 4.0 x 1.3 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph node candidates. Multiple lymph node candidates are
identified measuring 0.2-2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates
are entirely submitted as follows:
B1: 4 lymph node candidates
B2: 3 lymph node candidates
B3-B5: One lymph node candidate, bisected, each cassette
B6-B7: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette
B8-B9: One lymph node candidate, sectioned
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate and
seminal vesicle". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 285.4 g, 16.5 x 14
x 3.6 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7 x 6.5 x 3 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 4.4 x 4 x 3.3 cm prostate. The right seminal
vesicles measure 2.9 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm and right vas deferens measures 9 x 0.6 cm.
The left seminal vesicles measures 2.5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm and left vas deferens
measures 8 x 0.6 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.4 x 0.9 cm and is not
probe patent to the trigone. The left ureteral stump measures 2 x 0.6 cm, and
is probe patent to the trigone.
The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The prostate is surrounded by a thin, intact membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri-urethral nodularity with no discrete
masses.
The opened bladder reveals a 5 x 4 cm ulcerated area located in the right
posterior and right lateral wall. On cut section, a firm white-tan lesion
extends through the muscularis propria into the perivesical fat with a maximum
depth of 1.2 cm and is 0.5 cm from the deep margin. The surrounding bladder
mucosa is edematous and pink-tan with a uniform 1.0 cm wall thickness. Gross
photographs are taken.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Left ureter resection margin
C2: Right ureter resection margin
C3-C4: Distal prostatic urethral margin (apex), shaved and
perpendicularly sectioned
C5-C7: Mass, deepest extent of invasion
C8: Mass and adjacent seminal vesicle (right)
C9-C10: Mass and closest approach to deep resection margin, submitted in
tandem
C11-C12: Additional sections of mass
C13: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
C14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
C15: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall
C16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa left lateral wall
C17-C19: Representative right lobe of prostate submitted from apex to base
C20-C22: Representative left lobe of prostate submitted from apex to base
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 1.2 cm in length by 0.7 cm in
diameter rubbery white tube-shaped structure grossly consistent with ureter.
There is 2.4 x 1.6 x 0.6 cm of attached yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue.
There is a stitch on one aspect of the ureter that is not further designated.
The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
D1: Ureter, stitch side
D2: Ureter, non-stitch side
D3: Remainder of ureter
XX
[ ]
Criteria
Now 12/18/12
Diagnosis Discrepancy Mixed of small wall
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Note
Case (circle
Reviewer Init
MQUALIFIED
frostate
DC Reviewed:
Yes'
No
DISQUALIFIED
12/18/12
