Reporting pathologist(s):
CONSULTANT.
Sample
(TYPE UNSPECIFIED) Collected
Received
HISTOLOGY
HISTOLOGY
SPECIMEN
A-Bladder & prostate.
B Peri-bladder nodes.
-
C - Right external iliac node.
D Right anterior obturator node.
-
E-Right posterior obturator node.
FLeft external iliac node.
G-Left anterior obturator node.
H-Left posterior obturator node.
I - Left ureteric margin.
J - Right ureteric margin.
CLINICAL DETAILS
ICD-0.3
Carcinoma), derothelial NOS 8/20/3
Suite: Bladder NOS C67.9
JW 5/2/14
UUID:D0951273-E0D2-4B6F-8033-4745A2AAD74E
TCGA-ZF-A9R1-01A-PR
Redacted
Radical cystoprostatectomy for G3 pT2 TCC diagnosed at
MACROSCOPY
Verified by TSS - PTs on bx only -
PT3 proven on resection.
A - Cystoprostatectomy specimen with bladder approximately 50 mm in
diameter, attached adipose tissue 112 mm x 60 mm. Prostate measuring
35 mm supero-inferiorly x 45 mm lateral x 28 mm anterior-posterior.
Opened for research sampling.
The right side of the bladder has an indurated and ulcerated area
measuring 20 mm maximum with associated pale firm tumour extending
into adjacent adipose tissue and coming close to the anterior and
right surgical margin (blue ink). Elsewhere bladder mucosa appears
normal.
The prostate shows a minor degree of nodular hyperplasia.
=
Blocks: Alurthra RM; A2 = left side prostate; A4,5,6 & 7 =
composite slices of tumour; A8 = tumour; A9 & A10= right side bladder
(composite); A11 = apex; A12 = anterior and left; A13 = bladder neck.
B-Adipose tissue 60 mm, containing ? 3 LNs. Two of them are dense
and white with tumour, max size 9 mm.
1 LN per cassette.
C - Two pieces of adipose tissue, together measuring 65 mm, containing
a LN.
Blocks: C1 & C2 = 1 LN.
D - Fatty tissue measuring 40 mm, containing 1 large and 1 small LN.
Blocks: D1 = small LN; D2 & D3 & D4 = large LN.
E- Fatty tissue measuring 60 mm, containing ? 2 LNS.
F-Fatty tissue measuring 50 mm, containing 2 LNS.
Blocks: F11 LN; F2 & F3 = 1 LN.
=
G - Fatty tissue measuring 60 mm, containing 2 LNS.
H-Fatty tissue measuring 40 mm, containing 2 LNs.
I - 5 mm length of ureter.
J-9 mm length of ureter.
MICROSCOPY
A - Bladder and prostate: Sections from the macroscopically
identified lesion confirm a poorly differentiated predominantly solid
urothelial carcinoma extending with discohesive clusters the entire
thickness of the bladder wall into the perivesical fat. The tumour
extends to less than 1 mm of the circumferential surgical resection
margin on the right side which is composed of compressed soft tissue.
There is no lymphocytic infiltrate at the tumour host interface.
Sections away from the main tumour mass contain foreign body-type
multinucleated giant cell aggregates in the lamina propria indicative
of site of previous biopsy.
Lymphovascular invasion is noted.
There is no perineural invasion.
The adjacent urothelium does not show evidence of dysplasia or
carcinoma in situ. There is tumour and ulceration.
Sections of the prostate confirm high grade PIN but there is no
evidence of microacinar adenocarcinoma. Some of the acinar structures
contain a chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate with an occasional
giant cell and is most likely to represent reaction to BCG. The
urothelium included does not show any evidence of dysplasia, carcinoma
in situ or a papillary urothelial carcinoma.
The urethral surgical margin is within morphologically normal limits.
B - Peri-bladder nodes: Two lymph nodes, both with metastatic
urothelial carcinoma. One node shows extracapsular extension.
C - Right external iliac node: One lymph node without metastatic
carcinoma.
D Right anterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with florid sinus
hyperplasia. No metastatic carcinoma.
E-Right posterior obturator nodes: Two nodes without metastatic
carcinoma.
F-Left external iliac nodes: Two lymph nodes with sinus
hyperplasia. No metastatic carcinoma.
G - Left anterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with no metastatic
carcinoma.
H-Left posterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with no
metastatic carcinoma.
I - Left ureteric margin: This is morphologically normal ureter.
J - Right ureteric margin: This is morphologically normal ureter.
SUMMARY (Parts A - J)
Poorly differentiated ulcerated urothelial carcinoma pT3b pN1 R0 (but
close circumferential margin on the right side).
Criteria
Nw 1/30/14
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
Yes
No
✓
рта рох м
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
394
