Patient
Referring Physician:
UUID:COF7848A-DD0B-4782-956F-A24D597D70BC
TCGA-AC-ASEI-01A-PR
Redacted
Gender: F
Ref#:
Hosp#:
Provider Group :
Date of Service:
Date Received:
Outpatient
Case #
A copy of this report will be faxed to:
ICD-0-3
COCF Breast, NOS
Site: Path ® Brast, LIQ C50.3
Tumor Phyllodes, malignant 9020/3
9201/2/13
050,9
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis:
A. - D.) RIGHT BREAST AND AXILLARY LYMPH NODES, MASTECTOMY WITH SENTINEL
LYMPH NODE BIOPSIES:
- Invasive ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1.
- Present in lower inner quadrant.
- Tumor size: 1.2 cm in diameter.
- Invasive carcinoma invades into dermis; carcinoma focally
abuts but does not invade into pectoralis muscle.
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), low to intermediate nuclear
grade, cribriform-type, with comedo necrosis and calcifications.
- DCIS is present in the area of invasive carcinoma, as well as
in the central breast tissue.
Malignant phyllodes tumor. See comment.
- Phyllodes tumor size: 3.2 cm in diameter.
- Present in upper outer quadrant.
- The mastectomy margins are free of tumor.
- Invasive carcinoma is 0.5 cm from deep margin, and is at least 1 cm
from all other margins.
- Phyllodes tumor is at least 1.5 cm from all margins.
- Micrometastatic carcinoma in one of two sentinel lymph nodes (1/2).
- Size of metastatic focus: 0.1 cm.
- Isolated tumor cells are found in the second lymph node.
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1.
- Malignant phyllodes tumor also present.
Type and grade (in situ): DCIS, low to intermediate nuclear grade.
Primary tumor: pT1c.
Regional lymph nodes: pN1(mi).
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Stage: IB.
Case #:
Acct No.
Patient Name .
Pathology - Page 1/6
Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)
age 1 Doc# 1
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: Negative.
COMMENT: The mastectomy specimen contains two separate neoplasms, a
conventional low grade invasive ductal carcinoma in the lower inner quadrant, and a
malignant phyllodes tumor in the upper outer quadrant.
Histologic features of malignancy in the phyllodes tumor include marked cytologic
atypia of the stromal cells and frequent mitotic activity (in some areas sixteen
mitoses per ten high power fields). The edge of the phyllodes tumor shows
microscopic infiltration into the surrounding adipose tissue, but no grossly
appreciable infiltration into the surrounding breast tissue is seen. No significant
stromal overgrowth is identified.
The separately submitted superior margin and the separately submitted medial
breast tissue (specimens C and D) contain no additional foci of neoplasia.
Intradepartmental consultation:
Invasive Breast Cancer Tumor Staging Information
concurs with the above diagnoses.
AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed., and CAP Protocol (revised
Previous pathology specimens)
| Staging information based on invasive ductal carcinoma.
Case #:
Acct No
Patient Name -
Pathology - Page 2/6
Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)
2 Doc# 1
Patient:
Case #:
SPECIMEN IDENTIFICATION
Procedure/specimen type:
Laterality:
Lymph node sampling:
INVASIVE CARCINOMA TUMOR CHARACTERISTICS
Histologic type:
Tumor site:
Tumor size:
Right mastectomy.
Right.
Sentinel lymph node biopsies.
Invasive ductal carcinoma. Malignant phyllodes
tumor also present.
Lower inner quadrant.
1.2 cm.
Single focus invasive carcinoma.
Tumor focality:
Histologic grade (Nottingham Score):
Tubule formation:
Nuclear pleomorphism:
Mitotic rate:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Macroscopic and microscopic extent of tumor:
DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU (DCIS):
1 of 3.
1 of 3.
1-2 of 3.
1 of 3.
Indeterminate.
Invasive carcinoma invades into dermis by direct
extension; tumor does not invade into pectoralis
muscle.
Low to intermediate grade DCIS with comedo
necrosis, present in association with invasive
carcinoma and extending into central breast.
MARGINS
Invasive carcinoma:
Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Phyllodes tumor:
LYMPH NODES
Total lymph nodes examined
Number of lymph nodes involved
Size of largest metastatic deposit:
Extranodal extension:
PATHOLOGIC STAGING:
Primary Tumor (PT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (PM):
AJCC Stage:
ANCILLARY STUDIES:
Estrogen receptor:
Progesterone receptor:
0.5 cm from deep margin, at least 1 cm from all
other margins.
At least 1 cm from all margins.
1.5 cm from deep margin, at least 1.5 cm from
all other margins.
Two.
One.
0.1 cm.
Not identified.
pT1c.
pN1(mi).
Not applicable.
IB.
ProPath
100% positive cells, strong intensity.
60% positive cells, strong intensity.
Page 3
This report continues... (FINAL)
Case #:
Acct No.
Patient Name
Pathology
Page 3/6
e 3 Doc# 1
Patient
Case #
HER2:
Ki-67:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
IHC score 0.
5% positive cells.
Source of Specimen:
A. Sentinel lymph node;right axillary (200)
B. Breast total mastectomy
C. Additional superior right breast
D. Medial right breast tissue
Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Malignant neoplasm of upper outer quadrant of female breast.
Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Sentinel node, right axillary, touch prep: Negative for metastasis
interpretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at
Gross Description:
The intraoperative
A. Part A is labeled sentinel node #1, right axillary (200), touch prep. Initially received in the fresh state
for touch prep analysis is a portion of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue, 3.8 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. Examination
reveals two lymph node candidates, 3.5 and 2.0 cm each. The lymph nodes are serially sectioned
demonstrating rubbery, light pink and tan cut surfaces without grossly discrete nodularity. Four touch
preparation slides are forwarded for microscopic evaluation. The lymph node tissue is entirely submitted
for routine histology with a sentinel node protocol performed.
Cassette summary:
A1-A3) largest lymph node,
Case #:
Acct No.
Patient Name -
Pathology - Page 4/6
Page 4
This report continues... (FINAL)
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
A4-A5) smallest lymph node.
B. The specimen is labeled right breast mastectomy tissue and is received without fixative. It consists of a
mastectomy specimen weighing 490 grams. A black suture marks medial. With this orientation the
specimen measures 23 cm from medial to lateral, 13 cm from superior to inferior, and is up to 3.8 cm
from anterior to posterior. There is an overlying ellipse of tan skin which measures 20 × 12.5 cm. In the
medial most portion of the skin there is a linear scar with a slight palpable firmness. This linear scar is 2
cm in length. It is 8 cm medial to the nipple. The skin is otherwise tan and unremarkable. The
anterior-superior margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin,
which consists predominantly of smooth fascial tissue, is inked black. In the medial portion of the
specimen, corresponding to the linear scar superficially, skeletal muscle is present at the deep margin and
measures 2.5 x 2 cm.
The specimen is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal a small stellate neoplasm in the lower inner
quadrant. It measures 1.2 cm from medial to lateral, 0.9 cm from superior to inferior, and 0.8 cm from
anterior to posterior. It causes dimpling of the skin and abuts the skeletal muscle at the deep edge of the
neoplasm. The neoplasm is 0.5 cm from the closest deep margin which is the skeletal muscle, 1.7 cm from
the closest inferior margin, 4 cm from the closest superior margin, 2.5 cm from the closest medial margin,
and greater than 15 cm from the lateral margin.
In the upper and outer quadrant there is a relatively well circumscribed mass which is composed of slightly
bulging glistening tan tissue. This mass measures 2.8 cm from medial to lateral, 3.2 cm from superior to
inferior, and 3 cm from superficial to deep. Representative sections of the upper outer quadrant mass are
obtained for research purposes. It is 0.7 cm from the closest margin which is the anterior-superior margin. It
is 1.5 cm from the closest deep margin. It is 6.5 cm from the closest inferior margin, 3 cm from the closest
lateral margin, and 12 cm from the closest medial margin. The remainder of the breast is composed of
lobulated fatty tissue and predominantly centrally located fibrous parenchyma. The central fibrous
parenchyma is moderately dense but no other areas have a stellate or retracted appearance. No lymph
nodes are identified within the lateral portion of the excision.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
B1) nipple and tissue deep to nipple,
82-86) deep margin of mastectomy specimen lower inner quadrant including skeletal muscle progressing
from medial breast toward center of breast,
B7-B8) lower inner quadrant neoplasm and closest approach to skin,
B9-B10) upper outer quadrant mass and closest approach to anterior-superior margin,
B11-B15) representative sections of upper outer quadrant mass,
816) deep surgical margin underlying upper outer quadrant mass,
817) representative sections upper inner quadrant,
818) lower inner quadrant,
819) upper outer quadrant.
B20-821) central breast.
C. Part C is labeled additional superior margin over tumor, right breast. Received in formalin is a 12 gram
ovoid pad of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue, 5.7 cm medial-lateral, 3.4 cm posterior-anterior, and 1.1 cm
Case #:
Acct No.
Patient Name
Pathology
Page 5/6
Page 5
This report continues.
(FINAL)
5 Doc# 1
Patient:
Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
old surface (blue)-superior surgical margin. Two sets of sutures are present; a short suture marks
anterior-medial and a long suture marks anterior-lateral. The surgical margins are now differentially inked
as follows:
Superior surface is marked blue,
Inferior (old surface) is over-inked green,
Anterior edge is marked yellow,
Posterior edge is marked black,
Medial edge is marked red,
Lateral edge is marked orange.
The specimen is serially sectioned perpendicularly through the medial-lateral long axis demonstrating
glistening, lobular, yellow-tan fatty cut surfaces without discrete residual or invasive tumor component.
The specimen is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in a sequential fashion, medial to lateral in
C1-C9.
D. Part D is labeled as medial right breast tissue. Received in formalin is a flimsy pad of fibrofatty soft
tissue weighing 8 grams and measuring 5.1 cm inferior-superior, 2.3 cm medial-lateral, and 2.1 cm
anterior (blue)-posterior. A clip marks the medial edge and the anterior surface has been previously
marked blue. The specimen is now differentially inked as follows:
Anterior is over-inked blue,
Posterior is inked black,
Medial periphery is marked red,
Lateral periphery is marked orange,
Inferior periphery is marked green,
Superior periphery is marked yellow.
The specimen is serially sectioned perpendicularly through the superior-inferior long axis to reveal
glistening, yellow-tan fatty cut surfaces without gross residual/invasive tumor component. The specimen is
entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in a sequential fashion, superior to inferior, in A1-A6.
Microscopic Description:
A. Immunohistochemical stain: CK-OSCAR, highlighting micrometastasis in isolated tumor cells in axillary
lymph nodes. Appropriate positive and negative controls reviewed.
B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.
Case #:
Acct No.
Patient Name
Pathology
Page 6/6
Page 6
END OF REPORT (FINAL)
Giteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
12/21/12
Priniary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Yes
No
ed breast ductal ✓
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted 97
Case is (cirdel
Reviewer !rs
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFILD
are Reviewed:
12/21/12
