Sex:
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Phyt....
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
SPECIMEN INF
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Ureter, right, surgical margin, biopsy with frozen section evaluation:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis A confirmed.
B. Ureter, left, surgical margin, biopsy with frozen section evaluation:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis B confirmed.
C. Urinary bladder, radical cystoprostatectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma with focal squamous differentiation.
2. Histologic grade: Grade III (poorly differentiated).
3. Tumor size: 5.0 by 2.0 cm.
Criteris
Yes.
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer ma
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
4. Microscopic tumor extension: Malignancy extends completely through the muscular wall of the bladder and into paravesicle adipose tissue.
5. Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical Margins:
1. Margins uninvolved: Right and left ureters (see parts 1 and 2); paravesicle soft tissues.
2. Margins involved: None identified.
Other:
1. Associated epithelial lesions: Multifocal high-grade urothelial dysplasia/flat carcinoma in situ is present.
2. Other significant findings: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision (see part 4): Metastatic high-grade urothelial carcinoma, one of two nodes.
3. pTNM stage: pT3a, N1.
Prostate gland, radical cystoprostatectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
2. Prostate size: 4.5 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm.
3. Tumor quantitation: Malignancy is present in both right and left lobes, and estimated to account for approximately 10% of the prostate volume.
4. Gleason grade:
a. Primary pattern: 3/5.
b. Secondary pattern: 3/5.
c. Total Gleason score: 6/10.
5. Extraprostatic extension: Not identified.
6. Seminal vesicle involvement: Not applicable; seminal vesicles not identified grossly.
7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
8. Perineural invasion: Not Identified.
9. High grade PIN: Not identified.
10. Treatment effect: Not identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margins uninvolved: Right and left lobes laterally, prostate base.
2. Margins involved: Prostatic apex, single microscopic focus.
Lymph Node Status:
1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 2 (see part 4).
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic prostate carcinoma: 0.
Other:
1. pTNM stage: pT2c, NO.
D. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
Metastatic high-grade urothelial carcinoma, one of two nodes.
Negative for metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma.
10003
Carcinoma, urothelial, Nos
812013
Site:
CQCF- bladder, NOS C67.9
Path-bladder, anterior wall
C47.3
6-6-12
RD
UUID:702DCFCC-C28D-4122-B12F-DED2154826BE
TCGA-GC-A3YS-01A-PR
16/5/12
Redacted
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
The malignancy in the bladder corresponds to those in prior bladder biopsies,
The single involved lymph node demonstrates a high-grade
epithelial malignancy, histologically identical to that in the bladder. The malignancy does not resemble the prostatic adenocarcinoma.
This case has been reviewed in intradepartmental consultation and as part of the
agreement with the diagnosis.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Not given
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right ureter clip on distal end
B. Left ureter clip on distal end
C. Bladder and prostate
D. Left pelvic lymph node
CLINICAL INFORMATION
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The first container A is labeled with the patient's name
SPECIMEN DATA.
'right ureter clip on the distal end.' The specimen consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 0.2 cm in length, 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and the frozen section is subsequently entirely
submitted in a single cassette
B. The second container B is labeled with the patient's name
eft ureter.' The specimen consists of a segment of ureter measuring 0.2 cm
in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and the frozen section is subsequently entirely submitted in a
single cassette labeled
C. The third container C is labeled with the patient's name
bladder and prostate.' The specimen consists of a bladder with attached
prostate and attached perivesicular fat measuring in total 13.0 x 12.0 x 7.5 cm and weighs 312 grams. The bladder itself measures 7.5 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm.
The soft tissue resection margin is yellow to brown-tan, shaggy. The margin has been inked black. The prostatic urethral margin has been inked blue.
The bladder is opened anteriorly. The mucosa is gray-tan to brown-tan displaying a gray-brown shaggy mass primarily on the anterior wall that
measures 5.0 x 2.7 cm that extends down to the trigone area, is within 2.5 cm of the prostatic urethral margin. The right and left ureters are probed and
patent and are uninvolved by the mass. On sectioning through the mass, the mass extends into the underlying wall. The cut surface is gray-tan and
fibrotic. Depth of invasion approximately 1.8 cm and comes within 0.3 cm of the inked deep margin. The prostate measures 4.5 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm. The
surface is yellow to gray-tan fibrous. There are no lesions identified gross. The seminal vesicles, vas deferens are not identified. Received with the
specimen are three cassettes, one green, one yellow, one blue labeled
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
s follows: Perpendicular sections taken from the prostatic urethral margin in blocks 1 and 2; full thickness sections taken from the
mass in Docks 3 through 7; random sections from uninvolved bladder mucosa from the floor, block 8; trigone area block 9; left distal ureter margin, block
10; proximal left ureter taken at the urethra orifice block 11; right distal ureter margin, block 12; right proximal ureter taken at the orifice in block 13; left
prostate lobe, block 14; right prostate lobe, block 15; perpendicular sections taken from the base of the prostate, block 18.
D. The fourth container D is labeled with the patient's name
'left pelvic lymph node.' The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes that measure 1.8 and 2.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted
in cesettes labeled
on as follows: One probable node trisected, blocks 1 and 2; one probable node trisected in blocks 3 through 5.
INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSES: Parts A and B: Negative per Dr.
11-3
