UUID:34137AE9-26C3-4CCC-8172-C8DEDF9689A7
TCGA-UY-A78L-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, urothelial
papillary 8130/3
Sate Bladder NOS
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
0679
48/20/13
A.
Left distal ureter, margin, biopsy: No tumor identified.
B.
Right distal ureter, margin, biopsy: No tumor identified.
C.
Urethra, margin, biopsy: No tumor identified.
D.
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma in one of eleven lymph
nodes (1/11).
Urinary bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy:
E.
1.
F.
2.
i m
3.
Per TSS, adenocarcinoma 5%.
High-grade urothelial carcinoma, mixed transitional cell and adenocarcinoma zc
types, with deep invasion into muscularis propria, no extension into
periurithral fat; see comment.
Papillary urothelial hyperplasia of trigone.
Small focus of urothelial carcinoma in situ in urinary outflow tract of
bladder.
4. Benign prostatic tissue, distal prostatic urethra free of tumor.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: No tumor identified in twelve lymph nodes
(0/12).
G. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, biopsy: No tumor identified.
H.
Left ureter, biopsy: No tumor identified.
I.
Right ureter, biopsy: No tumor identified.
COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with partial glandular differentiation.
2. Tumor grade: High grade.
3. Tumor size: 3 cm.
4. Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria, but not beyond.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None identified.
6. Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: No adjacent organs involved.
8. Surgical margins:
Urethral margin: Free of tumor.
Right ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Left ureter margin: Free of tumor.
Perivesical margin: Free of tumor.
9. Lymph nodes: One of twenty-three (1/23) lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor; the largest metastatic
deposit measures 0.7 cm in greatest dimension; there is no extranodal tumor growth.
10. Other pathologic findings in bladder: Papillary urothelial hyperplasia.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bN1Mx.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Left distal uretral margin (FS)
B:Right distal uretral margin (FS)
C:Uretheral margin (FS)
D:Left pelvic nodes (FS)
E:Bladder & prostate (FS)
F:Right pelvic lymph nodes (FS)
G:Right pelvic lymph node
H:Final left ureter
I:Final right ureter
Intraoperative Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Left distal ureter margin, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.
FS2
(B) Right distal ureter margin, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.
FS3
(C) Urethral margin, biopsy: No carcinoma identified. Benign prostatic glands noted.
FS4
(D) Left pelvic lymph node, excision: No carcinoma identified (0/3).
FS5
(E) Bladder and prostate, distal urethral margin, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.
FS6 (F) Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No carcinoma identified (0/3).
Clinical History
The patient is a ☑-year-old man with bladder tumor.
Gross Description
The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Parts A through F are received fresh, and Parts G through I are received in formalin.
Part A is additionally labeled "left distal ureteral margin." It consists of a donut-shaped fragment of
tan-pink tissue, measuring 1.0 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as FS1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Al.
Part B is additionally labeled "right distal ureteral margin." It consists of a fragment of tan-pink tissue,
measuring 0.7 cm in diameter with a lumen in the center. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section diagnosis 
as FS2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette B1.
Part C is additionally labeled "urethral margin." It consists of multiple fragments of red-tan tissue,
measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis
as FS3, with 
the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette C1.
Part D is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes." It consists of multiple fragments of fibroadipose
tissue, 
measuring 5.0 x 5.0 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. Dissection reveals multiple tan-pink, soft lymph nodes,
ranging 
from 0.3 cm to 0.8 cm. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS4,
with the 
frozen section remnant submitted in cassette D1. Additional lymph nodes are dissected from the
adipose 
tissue and are submitted in cassettes D2 and D3.
Part E is additionally labeled "bladder, prostate, distal urethral margin." It consists of a cystoprostatectomy
specimen, 
weighing 275 gm and measuring 17.0 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm. The specimen is inked as follows: the
right-
anterior surface is inked green, the left-anterior surface is inked blue, and the posterior surface is
inked 
black. The ureters are probed and are patent. The specimen is opened along its anterior edge
through the 
prostatic urethra. The urinary bladder measures 9.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm, and the prostate
measures 
4.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm. On opening, there is a large tumor, measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm, in the left
posterior-
lateral surface of the urinary bladder. The region of the trigone shows mucosal swelling and
irregularity 
in an area measuring 2.5 x 2.5 cm. No other gross lesions are noted. The ureters grossly
appear to be free of tumor. On serial sectioning of the prostate, no tumor is noted. The seminal vesicles
are 
unremarkable. On the cut surface, the prostatic parenchyma is tan-white and is firm in appearance.
Representative sections 
are submitted as follows:
Cassette El:
Cassette E2:
Cassette E3:
Cassettes E4-E7:
Cassette E8:
Cassette E9:
Cassettes E10-E11:
Cassettes E12-E15:
Cassettes E16-E19:
Cassette E20:
Cassette E21:
Cassette E22:
Distal urethral margin.
Right ureteral margin.
Left ureteral margin.
Tumor.
Section from the dome.
Section from the irregular area of the trigone.
Section from the right lateral wall of the urinary bladder.
Slices through the mid part of the prostate, including the right anterior and posterior
and left 
anterior and posterior parts of the prostate, respectively.
Slice from the distal part of the prostate, including the right anterior and posterior
and the 
left anterior and posterior sections, respectively.
Right seminal vesicle.
Left seminal vesicle.
Fibroadipose tissue attached to the outer surface of the urinary bladder.
Part F is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes." It consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue,
measuring 5.0 x 5.0 x 
1.2 cm in aggregate. Multiple tan-pink, soft lymph nodes, ranging in size from 0.3
cm to 0.7 cm, are identified. 
Some of these are submitted for frozen section, with the frozen section
remnant 
submitted in cassette F1. Additional lymph nodes are identified and are submitted in cassettes F2
and F3.
Part G is additionally labeled "7 - right pelvic lymph node." It consists of one irregular, ovoid, unoriented
fragment soft, brown-tan, 
glistening fibrofatty tissue, measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.2 cm. It has four attached
white, metal clips, which 
are removed. The specimen is entirely submitted, intact, in cassette Gl.
Part H is additionally labeled "8- final left ureter." It consists of two irregular, unoriented fragments soft,
pink-tan, glistening 
fibrous tissue. The larger fragment has two attached white, metal clips and one set of
white sutures that are grossly 
apparent retraction aid. The sutures and clips are removed. The specimen
measures 1.7 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm 
in aggregate. The larger fragment is bisected, and the specimen is entirely
submitted in cassette H1.
Part I is additionally labeled "9 - final right ureter." It consists of two irregular, unoriented fragments of
firm, pink-tan, glistening 
fibrous tissue. The larger fragment has one attached white, metal clip and one
set of white sutures that 
are grossly apparent retraction aids. The metal clip is removed. The specimen
measures 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm in aggregate. The larger fragment is bisected, and the specimen is entirely
submitted in cassette I1.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
w 5/16/13 Yes
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer incials
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
No
Date Reviewed: 8/9/2013
