Pathology Consultation Report
CASE:
DOCTOR:
DATE OF SERVICE:
Final
UUID:67B47EFA-A6C9-4086-AF17-8A4E1FF6656B
TCGA-FJ-A3Z7-01A-PR
Redacted
ANATOMIC PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS:
A - Ureter, right, distal, segmental resection
Focal low grade dysplasia
B -
Ureter, left, distal, resection
- No pathologic diagnosis
C - Apical urethral surgical margin, resection
· Urothelial with reactive atypia
D - Urinary bladder, radical cystectomy
E
Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder (transitional carcinoma)
High grade (grade 3/3)
Solid pattern
- 7 cm
Invasion into the inner half of the muscular propria
Multifocal lymphovascular invasion
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, kothelial, Nos 8120/3
Site: bladder,
All surgical margins (right and left ureteral, urethral and soft
tissue margins)
free of tumor involvement
Carcinoma in situ/high dysplasia, multifocal, involving urothelium
Brunner's nest with high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in situ
Granulomatous inflammation of the mucosa
Reactive changes of the mucosa
Right ureter, high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in situ
Left ureter, high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in situ
Prostate, pending microscopic examination
One out ten lymph nodes with microscopic metastatic carcinoma
Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection
F
→
Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection
NOS
0479
سل
9/28/12
Two out of eleven lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma
G - Left common iliac lymph nodes, excision
Eleven lymph nodes without carcinoma
H - Right common iliac lymph nodes, dissection
Six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma
I - Presacral lymph nodes, resection
riteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Jual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
QUALIFIER
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALIFIED
Page 1 of 11
سل
3/27/12
Six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma
J -
Para-aortic lymph nodes, excision
Two lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma
K - Precaval lymph node, excision
One lymph node without metastatic carcinoma
L - Discarded segment of bowel, segmental resection
Small bowel wall without diagnostic alteration
M - Proximal margin, left ureter, excision
No pathologic diagnosis
N - Distal right ureter, segmental resection
Focal low grade dysplasia
PATHOLOGIST:
I have reviewed this material and confirm the report. Released by
electronic signature on:
MATERIAL:
A. Right distal ureter; B. Left distal ureter: C. Apical margin. D.
Urinary bladder
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes. F. Right pelvic lymph nodes. G. Left
common iliac lymph nodes. H. Right common iliac lymph nodes. I.
Pre-sacral lymph nodes. J. Para-aortic lymph nodes. K. Pre-caval
lymph nodes
. 
L. Discarded segment of small bowel.
M. Proximal margin of left ureter. N. Distal right ureter. 0.
Prostate.
INTRAOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
AFS
BFS
Right distal ureter excision
Lower grade dysplasia versus high grade dysplasia, suggest
additional 
resection
(Reported to
Left distal ureter excision
Page 2 of 11
NAME
CFS
No dysplasia
No carcinoma
(Reported to
Atypical urethral margin, biopsy
No dysplasia
No carcinoma
(Reported to
HISTORY:
with bladder cancer.
GROSS:
A-Received fresh labeled as right distal ureter is a
unoriented segment of ureter (0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm).
for frozen section in AFS.
can pink
Entirely submitted
B-Received fresh labeled as left distal ureter is a tan pink unoriented
segment of ureter (0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm). Entirely submitted for frozen
section in BFS.
)
C-Received fresh labeled apical ureteral margin is a tan-pink,
unoriented, irregular piece of tissue measuring 1x0.5x0.3cm.
submitted for frozen section in CFS.
Entirely
D. A radical cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a urinary
bladder (9.0 x 7.0 x 2.0 cm when opened); a prostate gland; and
attached perivesical adipose tissue (overall measurements: 15.0 x 6.0 x
4.0 cm).
Located in the anterior, posterior, right, and left walls of the
urinary bladder, there is a nodular firm lesion (7.0 x 4.5 cm).
Sections through the lesion exhibit a firm white lesio that extends to
a depth of 2.0cm into the muscularis and adipose tissue. The ureters
are not identified in the specimen. The remainder of the urinary
bladder mucosa is edematous and red. The specimen is sequentially
sectioned inferior portion to the dome, and representative sections are
submitted in thirty-five cassettes: D1-D35.
Ink code: Blue - anterior
Black - posterior
Red - right
Orange left
Section code:
D1 Anterior right bladder wall
D2
Posterior bladder wall
D3
Posterior bladder wall
04
Anterior left bladder wall
DS
Anterior right bladder wall
D6
Right bladder wall
Page 3 of 11
07
Left bladder wall
D8
Right anterior bladder wall
09
Right posterior bladder wall
D10 Left posterior bladder wall
D11 Right posterior bladder wall (possible ureter)
D12 Left posterior bladder wall (possible ureter)
D13 Left anterior bladder wall
D14 Right posterior bladder wall
D15 Left posterior bladder wall
016 Posterior central bladder wall
D17 Posterior central bladder wall
D18 Posterior right bladder wall
D19 Left posterior bladder wall
D20 Posterior central bladder wall
D21 Left anterior edematous area
D22 Posterior central bladder wall
D23 Anterior left bladder wall
D24 Right posterior bladder wall
025 Right posterior bladder wall
D26 Left posterior bladder wall
D27 Right posterior bladder wall
D28 Left anterior and posterior bladder wall
D29 Deepest right posterior portion of lesion
D30 Left posterior bladder wall
D31 Representative section of dome
D32 Representative section, dome
D33 Representative section of dome
D34 Possible lymph node
D35 Possible lymph nodes
E-Received in formalin, labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes", are multiple
pieces of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue, aggregating to 9.5 x 5.5 ×
2.5 cm in size. Twelve possible lymph nodes, ranging in size from 0.5
× 0.3 × 0.2 cm to 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm in size are dissected. The cut
surfaces of all the above lymph nodes are tan-brown with interspersed
fatty areas. No discrete lesion is identified, grossly.
The lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
E6-E8
E1-ES single lymph node, serially sectioned, submitted entirely
single lymph node, serially sectioned, submitted entirely
two lymph nodes, submitted entirely
59
Ell
510 two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
E12 four possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
F-Received in formalin, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes", are
multiple pieces of fibroadipose tissue, aggregating to 8.5 x 6.0 x 2.5
cm in size. Eleven possible lymph nodes, ranging in diameter from 0.5
× 0.5 × 0.2 cm to 3.0 x 2.4 x 2.0 cm in size are dissected. The cut
surface of the lymph nodes is tan-pink with interspersed fatty areas.
The lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
Fl-F3 single lymph node, serially sectioned, submitted entirely
Page 4 of 11
F4-F5
F6 F8
63°
single lymph node, serially sectioned, submitted entirely
single lymph nod, serially sectioned, submitted entirely
two lymph nodes submitted entirely
F10 four possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
F11 single lymph node, submitted entirely
G-Received in formalin labeled as "left common iliac lymph nodes" are
multiple fragments of tan-yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue (5.5 x
4.0 × 0.9 cm). The specimen is predominantly yellow lobulated adipose
tissue with streaks of tan fibrosis and multiple possible lymph nodes.
The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple possible lymph nodes
are identified ranging in size from 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm up to 1.1 x 1.0
x 0.5 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are submitted entirely in five
cassettes, G1-G5.
Section Code:
Gl
G2
G3
G4
G5
one lymph node, bisected
four possible lymph nodes
two possible lymph nodes
two possible lymph nodes
two possible lymph nodes
H-Received in formalin labeled "right common iliac lymph nodes" is a
specimen of fibrofatty tissue (5.4 x 2.4 x 1.0 cm), The external
surface of the tissue is primarily yellow lobulated adipose tissue.
The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple possible lymph nodes
are identified ranging in size from (0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm up to 2.0 x 0.8
× 0.6 cm). Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes,
H1-H4.
Section Code:
H1
H2
H3
H4
two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
one possible lymph node, submitted entirely
two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
one lymph node, bisected, submitted entirely
I-Received in formalin labeled, as "pre-sacral lymph nodes" is a 4.0 x
3.0 x 0.5 cm irregular portion of adipose tissue. The specimen is
serially sectioned and six lymph nodes are identified ranging in size
from 0.4 to 1.3 cm.
Section Code:
I l
I2
I3
one lymph node
two lymph nodes
three lymph nodes
J-Received in formalin labeled, as "para-aortic lymph nodes" are two
tan-pink lymph nodes measuring 0.8 and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension
each.
Section Code:
J1
one lymph node, trisected
Page 5 of 11
J2
one lymph node, trisected.
K-Received in formalin labeled, as "pre-caval lymph nodes" are two
lymph nodes measuring 2.0 and 3.0 cm.
Section Code:
Kl
K2
one lymph node
one lymph node
L-Received in formalin, labeled "discarded segment of bowel", is a
segment of bowel (4.4 x 2.5 x 1.6 cm). The specimen is not oriented.
The specimen is stapled closed and has a tan-pink serosal surface with
attached mesenteric adipose tissue. The specimen is opened and the
mucosa is green-brown with normal mucosal folds. There are no polyps,
ulcers, or grossly identifiable lesions. Representative sections are
submitted in three cassettes, labeled L1-L3.
M-Received in formalin, labeled "proximal margin, left ureter", ia a
ureter with attached tissue (2.3 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm). The external surface
of the tissue is yellow-pink, soft, and lobulated. One staple is
attached to the specimen. A ureter is identified and serially
sectioned. Cut surface is without lesions or masses.
sections are submitted in two cassettes, labeled M1-M2.
Section Code:
Representative
M1-M2 proximal margin of left ureter, submitted entirely on end
N-Received in formalin, labeled "distal right ureter", is a ureter
specimen with attached tissue (2.3 x 1.1 x 0.5 cm). The external
surface of the tissue is tan-pink with attached lobulated adipose
tissue. One staple is identified on the specimen. The specimen is
serially sectioned and no masses or lesions are identified grossly. The
specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes N1-N2.
Section Code:
N1 N2
distal right ureter, serially sectioned. submitted entirely
MICROSCOPIC:
A - Sections show cross sections of ureter with low grade dysplasia
involving the urothelium, Obvious high grade dysplasia or invasive
carcinoma is not identified.
9 - Sections show cross sections of ureter without dysplastic changes.
C - Sections show urothelial together with underlying muscle. There is
reactive atypia of the urothelium. Dysplasia is not identified.
KARL Vane by clam ş
Page 6 of 11
D - Sections show urothelial carcinoma, high grade (transitional cell
carcinoma grade 3/3). The tumor shows a solid growth pattern. There
is minimal papillary formation. The tumor invades into the inner half
of the muscularis propria. There are many areas of lymphovascular
invasion within the tumor mass, at the tumor advancing edge and away
from the main tumor mass. There is no obvious perineural invasion.
The surgical margins (right and left ureral, urethral and soft tissue
margins) are free of tumor involvement.
The urothelium adjacent to the invasive carcinoma show high grade
dysplasia/carcinoma in situ.
The urothelium away from the main tumor shows several changes including
reactive atypia, low grade dysplasia, high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in
situ. Brunner's nests with high grade dysplasia/ carcinoma in situ are
present. Several areas of the urothelium are lost. The mucosa shows
a few granulomas with multinucleated giant cells. There is also
fibrosis, acute and chronic inflammation of the mucosal portion not
involved by tumor tissue.
Sections of the right and left ureters show focal areas of high grade
dysplasia/carcinoma in situ.
E - Sections show ten lymph nodes. One of them show a microscopic
focus of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma.
F - Sections show eleven lymph nodes, two of them show metastatic
carcinoma. The maximum size of the metastases are about 3 mm in lymph
hodes meauring up to 3.5 mm and 6 mm, respectively.
G - Sections show eleven lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.
H - Sections show six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.
I - Sections show six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.
J - Sections show two lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.
K - Sections show one lymph node without metastatic carcinoma
4
- Sections show terminal ileal wall with no diagnostics alteration.
M - Sections show cross sections of ureter with no dysplasia or
carcinoma invasive.
N - Sections show cross section of ureter with focal low grade
dysplasia. High grade dysplasia or carcinoma is not identified.
Page 7 of 11
TUMOR SYNOPTIC REPORT AND STAGING:
Specimen:
Procedure:
ph nodes
Radical cystectomy with nodal dissection
Tumor size:
7 cm
Histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma, high grade (transition cell
carcinoma grade 3/3)
Associated epithelial Lesion: Multifocal high grade dysplasia/
carcinoma in situ
Histologic grade:
High grade
Microscopic tumor extension: Involvement of the inner half of the
muscularis
Margin status:
Lymphovascular invasion
Primary tumor: T2a
Lymph node
Distant Metastasis: MO
Stage grouping: Stage IV
Site of distant metastases
Negative
None
Multifocal lymphovascular invasion
N2
Page 1 of 1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
DICTATED BY:
This report was verified electronically.
Page 8 of 11
DATE OF DISCHARGE:
DOCTOR:
DATE OF SERVICE:
Pathology Consultation Report
Supplemental
CASE:
REASON FOR ADDENDUM:
Addendum issued to repot findings of gross and microscopic examination
of prostate following formalin fixation and whole-mount processing.
ANATOMIC PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS:
Prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy
Focal invasive urothelial carcinoma into prostatic stroma
Extensive urothelial carcinoma in-situ involving prostate, with
prostatic duct and acinar involvement
Urothelial carcinoma in situ involving ejaculatory duct and
seminal vesicle
No lymphovascular invasion seen
- No prostate adenocarcinoma
Margins negative for urothelial carcinoma
PATHOLOGIST:
I have reviewed this material and confirm the report. Released by
electronic signature on:
MATERIAL:
O. Prostate.
i
HISTORY:
with bladder cancer.
GROSS :
O. Received in formalin and labeled prostate is a prostate with
attached bilateral seminal vesicles which together weigh 94g. The
prostate itself weighs 64g, and measures 4.5cm inferior to superior;
6.0cm transversely; and 6.0cm anterior to posterior.
Page 9 of 11
Following formalin fixation, the prostate margins are inked: the right
side 
in black, the left side in blue. Cut surfaces of nonsurgical
margins are inked as orange.
The apical margin is removed and submitted in a cone-like fashion. The
remainder of the gland is sectioned bilaterally in the sagittal plane
along either side of the prostatic urethra. Cut surfaces are smooth
pink to tan glistening, with areas of large nodularity and cystic
structures. The apex orifice is irregular and dilated to 1.0cm in
greatest dimension. The prostatic urethra is hemorrhagic, with focal
areas of necrosis.
The seminal vesicles have gray-white, semitranslucent walls of normal
thickness.
Section code:
P1-4 Apex margin
P Whole-mount prostate, sagittal plane, left side
P6
Whole-mount prostate, sagittal plane, right side
P7-13
Sequential sections of prostate, apex to base, left side
P14-21 Sequential sections prostate, apex to base, right side
Representative sections of left seminal vesicles
P22
P23 Representative section, right seminal vesicles
MICROSCOPIC:
Sections of prostate show extensive urothelial carcinoma in-situ
nvolving almost entire prostate. There are ductal as well as acinar
involvement. Focal stromal invasive carcinoma is seen. In addition, CIS
involving ejaculatory duct and seminal vesicle is also noted. No
lymphovascular invasion is identified. There is no prostate
adenocaricnoma. All margins are negative for tumor.
COMMENT:
Intradepartmental consultation:
(P5 and P6)
TUMOR SYNOPTIC REPORT AND STAGING:
Specimen (include all): Urinary bladder, prostate, extended pelvic
lymph node dissection specimens
Procedure type: Radical cystoprostatectomy and extended PLND
Tumor size: 7 cm
Histologic type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma
Associated epithelial lesions: CIS
Histologic grade (low or high): High grade
Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades bladder muscularis propria
and 
prostate stroma
Page 10 of 11
Margin status: Negative
Lymphovascular invasion:
Primary tumor (PT): PT4a
Lymph node (pN): pN2
Yes
Distant metastasis (M): CMO
Stage grouping: IV
Sites of distant metastasis: Unknown
Page 1 of 1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
DICTATED BY:
This report was verified electronically.
Page 11 of 11
