UUID:098BAA98-ACDF-4E3B-9383-03ECFB214CB3
TCGA-GV-A3JV-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
De-Identified Specimen Code_
Patient Age/Sex
SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
/ M
Part A: RIGHT DISTAL URETER
Part B: LEFT DISTAL URETER
Part C: RIGHT DISTAL URETER #2
Part D: URETHRAL MARGIN
Part E: BLADDER AND PROSTATE
Part F: RIGHT EXTERNAL ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
Part G: RIGHT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
Part H: RIGHT OBTURATOR LYMPH
NODES
Part I: RIGHT INTERNAL ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
Part J: LEFT EXTERNAL ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
Part K: LEFT OBTURATOR LYMPH
NODES
Part L: LEFT INTERNAL ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
Part M: LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH
NODES
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, wrathelial, Nos 8120/3
Path
Site: bladder, NOS
0679
CQCF
bladder, wall, Nos C67-9
لسلام
12/15/11
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Notad
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
☑QUALIFIED 1 DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed: 1
/ 12/15/1
Page 1 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Final Diagnosis
1. Right distal ureter, biopsy (A) - Atypical urothelium.
2. Left distal ureter, biopsy (B) - Negative for neoplasm.
3. Right distal ureter #2, biopsy (C) - Ureter, negative for dysplasia.
- Deatched cluster of atypical urothelial cells present of uncertain clinical significance.
4. Urethral margin, biopsy (D) - Negative for neoplasm.
5. Bladder, excision (E) - Invasive poorly differentiated urothelial carcinoma involving bladder and
right ureter with 
extension through bladder wall and involvement of adjacent adipose tissue.
6. Prostate, excision (E) - High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.
- Acute and chronic prostatitis.
7. Right external iliac region, biopsy (F) - Benign adipose tissue.
8. Right common iliac lymph nodes, excision (G) - Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving one of
four lymph nodes.
9. Right obturator lymph nodes, excision (H) - Negative for neoplasm, four lymph nodes.
10. Right internal iliac lymph nodes, excision (I) - Negative for neoplasm, four lymph nodes.
11. Left external iliac lymph nodes, excision (J) - Negative for neoplasm, two lymph nodes.
12. Left obturator lymph nodes, excision (K) - Negative for neoplasm, two lymph nodes.
13. Left internal iliac lymph nodes, excision (L) - Benign adipose tissue.
- No lymph node tissue identified.
14. Left common iliac lymph nodes, excision (M) - Negative for neoplasm, one lymph node.
F
Page 2 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis Comment:
Specimen Type: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Size, Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm
Histologic Type: Urothelial carcinoma
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO/ISUP, 1998): High-grade
Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma: Not applicable.
Associated Epithelial Lesions: High-grade papillary carcinoma
Margins: See report for parts A through D.
Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Present
Direct Extension of Invasive Tumor: Perivesical fat
Other Diagnoses: See report
Pathologic Stage:
Primary Tumor (PT): pT3b: Macroscopically invades perivesical fat (extravesical mass)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1: Metastasis in a single regional lymph node (true pelvis)
Distant Metastasis (PM): pMX: Cannot be assessed
Clinical Diagnosis:
BLADDER CANCER
Page 3 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Gross Description:
A. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "right distal ureter" is a circular segment of red-
pink tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen diagnosis in
FSA1.
B. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a specimen labeled "left distal ureter" consisting of
one segment of circular tan-pink soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally
submitted for frozen diagnosis in
C. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a specimen labeled "right distal ureter #2" consisting
of one segment of circular tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely
submitted for frozen diagnosis in F
D. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "urethral margin" are multiple irregular
fragments of red-pink soft tissue aggregating to 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted
for frozen diagnosis in cassette
E. The specimen consists of a urinary bladder, bilateral ureters, prostate and attached seminal vesicles
and vas deferens. The bladder measures 12 x 10 x 6.3 cm. The external surface of the bladder is
covered by a smooth serosal lining at the dome, and fibroadipose tissue at the remaining portion. This
surface is inked black. After the bladder is opened, an area of granular, erythematous mucosa is
identified in the trigone region extending around the right ureteral orifice and right bladder wall. This area
measures 2.8 x 2.3 cm. No discreet mass is identified on the mucosal surface of the bladder. Upon
sectioning, however, there is a mass extending from under the area of erythema around the right
ureteral orifice and down along the length of right ureter and into the fat. This mass is tan-white and
solid, however, the mid portion of the mass in the right ureter is largely necrotic. The mass measures
4.5 x 3.8 x 2.7 cm in total. The mass appears to extend through the muscularis propria in the portion
that involves the bladder wall and into the adipose tissue. It is within 0.7 cm of the inked radial margin at
its closest point. The mass does not appear to grossly involve the margin of resection of the right ureter.
The right ureter measures 7.2 cm in length. A segment of left ureter is present and measures 2.6 cm in
length. Upon opening, the mucosa of the left ureter appears unremarkable. The prostate measures 3.9
cm craniocaudally, 4 cm anteroposteriorly, and 5 cm transversely. The capsular surface is smooth and
appears to be intact. The gland is inked blue on the right, and yellow on the left, and sectioned from
apex to base transversely at 3 mm intervals perpendicular to the urethra. Cross sections do not a reveal
a mass lesion. Rubbery nodularity is not present. The seminal vesicles are grossly unremarkable.
Representative sections are submitted for permanent evaluation as follows: E1 urethral margin, E2 right
ureter margin, E3 left ureter margin, E4 mass with closest radial margin (blue and black ink), E5 mass
with right ureter orifice extending into mass, E6 mass and trigone extending through bladder wall, E7
representative section of mass and right bladder wall and right ureter orifice, E8 portion of necrotic mass
in mid portion of ureter, E9 additional section of mass and fat, E10 left ureter orifice and trigone, E11
representative section of left wall, E12 representative section of uninvolved right wall, E13 representative
section of uninvolved anterior wall, E14 representative section of uninvolved posterior wall, E15
representative section of uninvolved dome, E16 right apex prostate, E17 left apex prostate, E18 right
anterior prostate at 6 mm, E19 left anterior prostate at 6 mm, E20 right posterior prostate at 6 mm, E21
left posterior prostate at 6 mm, E22 right anterior prostate at 12 mm, E23 left anterior prostate at 12
mm, E24 right posterior prostate at 12 mm, E25 left posterior prostate at 12 mm, E26 right anterior
Page 4 of 5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Gross Description:
prostate at 21 mm, E27 left anterior prostate at 21 mm, E28 right posterior prostate at 21 mm, E29 left
posterior prostate at 21 mm.
F. Received fresh labeled "right external iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 2.5 x 1.8x 0.4 cm. Palpation reveals no nodules. The
specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.
G. Received in formalin labeled "right common iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped
segments of yellow-tan fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 4.1 x 3.0 x 0.6 cm. Palpation reveals three
yellow-tan ovoid firm nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.8 to 1.3 cm. The nodules
are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.
H. Received fresh labeled "right obturator lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow-red fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 4.3 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm. Palpation reveals no nodules. The
specimen is totally submitted in formalin in two cassettes.
1. Received fresh labeled "right internal iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow-red fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 5.1 x 4.3 x 1.3 cm. Palpation reveals four yellow-red ovoid
firm nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.4 to 2.2 cm. The nodules are totally
submitted in formalin as follows: 11 one nodule; 12 one nodule; 13 two nodules.
J. Received fresh labeled "left external iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow-tan fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 4.0 x 2.8 x 1.0 cm. Palpation reveals two yellow-red firm
ovoid nodules resembling lymph nodes measuring 1.2 cm and 1.5 cm respectively. The nodules are
totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.
K. Received fresh labeled "left obturator lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of yellow-
red fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 4.5 x 2.8 x 0.8 cm. Palpation reveals no nodules. The specimen
is totally submitted in two cassettes.
L. Received fresh labeled "left internal iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow-red fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 2.3 x 2.3 x 0.3 cm. Palpation reveals no nodules. The
specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.
M. Received fresh labeled "left common iliac lymph nodes" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of
yellow-tan fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 2.8 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm. Palpation reveals one yellow-tan ovoid
firm nodule resembling a lymph node measuring 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The nodule is totally
submitted in formalin in one cassette.
Page 5 of 5
:
