!
Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:
Physician:
Case #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
Copy To:
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. Sentinel node #1 CT
-Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node. Please see comment.
Comment: The tumor is seen on deeper section. Tumor is not identified in frozen section slide.
Immunostain for keratin is used in the interpretation.
B. Sentinel node#2
-No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
-Imunostain for keratin is negative.
C. Right breast:
-Invasive tubulolobular carcinoma, low nuclear grade, Nottingham histologic score grade 1. Resection margins are free of tumor.
-Microcalcifications are present.
ICD-0-3
Dr.
concurs.
Please see Tumor Summary.
TUMOR SUMMARY:
Path
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, upper inner quadrant C50.2
Specimen Type: Mastectomy.
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s) only.
CQCF Site: breast, Nos C50.9
2/8/11
Me
Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Upper inner quadrant.
Size of invasive component:
Greatest dimentsion: 1 cm
Additional dimensions: 1 x 0.6 cm.
Histologic Type: Invasive tubulolobular
Histologic Grade:
Nottingham Histologic Score:
Tubule Formation:
Moderate (score= 2)
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Small (score=1).
Mitotic count: Less than 10 mitoses per 10 HPF (score=1).
Total Nottingham Score: Grade I.
Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT1b
Regional lymph nodes: pN1a
Distant Metastasis: pMX
UUID:3CF4FC36-70EF-4EA3-874C-4A514FCDB717
TCGA-EW-A1IX-01A-PR
Redacted
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Distance from closest margin: 4 mm
Specify margin: Deep (posterior)
Venous/lymphatic: Absent.
Comments: Tumor cells are positive for ER and PR and negative for Her2 and by immunohistochemistry.
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRs are clinically useful indicators that do
not require FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5-ER, POR 636=PR, A485=HER2, H-11 EGFR, CCH2/DOG9-CMV, F39.4.1=AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used
with formalin 
or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive or negative.
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
Addendum Diagnosis
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
C.
The tumor cells are positive for E-Cadherin by immunohistochemistry.
As the attending pathologist, I attest that 1: (1) Examined the relevant
preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (i) Rendered the diagnosis(es).
This immunophenotype is most consistent with an infiltrating ductal carcinoma.
Intraoperative Consultation
AFS: No malignancy seen in one lymph node examined.
BFS: No malignancy seen in one lymph node examined.
-
Status: Signed Out
Clinical History:
Patient is a -year-old female with right breast cancer.
Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Not Provided
Specimen(s) Received:
A: sentinel node #1 CT (1
B: sentinel node#
C: right breast ( 1 suture superior, 2 sutures lateral)
Gross Description:
A.
B.
C.
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node #1 CT ☑)" is a fragment of adipose tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm.
The lymph node is bisected and submitted in toto for frozen section.
Received fresh and labeled "sentinel node#
' is a fragment of adipose tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The
lymph node is bisected and submitted in toto for frozen section.
Received in formalin and labeled "right breast (1 suture superior, 2 sutures lateral)" is oriented with one suture superior
and two sutures lateral. The specimen weighs 127.0 grams and measures 16.0 × 11.0 x 0.9 cm. The specimen consists
of a nipple and areola, which measures 3.3 x 2.5 cm. There is no retraction or scar. The specimen is inked as follows:
superior, blue; inferior, green; medial, red; lateral, orange; posterior (tip), black; anterior, yellow. Cut section revealed a
scar-like, firm lesion is identified in the upper inner quadrant, which measures 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. It is located 0.4 cm from
the deep margin, 2.0 cm from the superior margin, 3.0 cm from the medial margin, and 6.2 cm from the inferior margin.
The stroma to fat ratio is 70:30. No other masses or lesions are identified. Sections are submitted as follows:
5
Yo
1-4
Mass in toto
Upper inner quadrant
Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOL Report
6889
Lower inner quadrant
7
Upper outer quadrant
Lower outer quadrant
Nipple
ICD-9(8):
196.3 174.2
ite
Criteria
Diagr-osis Discrepancy
Prinary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
No
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
Page 3 of 3
