Final Surgical Pathology Report
ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, NOS 8010/3
Carcinoma, infiltrating 8010/E
Site ①Breast NOS C50.9
JW 4/12/13
لله
Procedure:
Diagnosis
A, B. Lymph nodes, left axillary sentinel %231 & #2, excisions
Negative for malignancy.
C.
Breast, left, segmental mastectomy -
Invasive mammary carcinoma, no special type, high combined histologic
grade, high proliferative rate.
D.
Breast, left, posterior to segmental mastectomy, excision -
Negative for malignancy.
Note: The above diagnoses are rendered per expert consultation from
of
Please see the
In a comment,
consultation report from Dr.
states: "This invasive carcinoma is circumscribed and has an expansile
rather then infiltrative growth pattern, which may explain the lack of
nodal involvement. The margins are adequate.
" In an addendum comment,
cates: "The closest margin from the left segmental
mastectomy (specimen C) is posterior (1.5 mm), however the separately
submitted new posterior margin (specimen D) is negative. The other
margins are negative by least 4 mm.
Microscopic Description:
A, B, D.
C.
Microscopic examination performed.
The following template summarizes the findings in part C:
Invasive Carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Invasive mammary carcinoma, no special type
Histologic grade: High combined histologic grade, high
proliferative rate
diagnosis)
Greatest dimension (PT): 4.2 cm (pT2)
Specimen margins: The margins are adequate (see comment in
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Not identified
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified
Comment: Please note that in addition to examining H&E stained
sections, representative blocks in part C were immunostained with
antibodies to p63 to aid in assessment.
Prognostic markers: Previously performed (see
[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
UUID:FA5CF5A2-F44A-4303-9200-32250FAEF374
TCGA-A7-A5ZV-01A-PR
Redacted
Specimen
A. Left axillary sentinel node %231, hot, not blue, 1018
B. Left axillary sentinel node %232, hot, blue, 237
C. Left breast segmental mastectomy
D. Tissue posterior to segmental mastectomy
Clinical Information
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast CA
Gross Description
A. Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary sentinel node
%231, hot, not blue, 1018" is a 2.2 x 1.7 x 1 cm soft tan-pink lymph node
AS-4, following 
fixation.
with some surrounding yellow adipose tissue.
B. Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary sentinel node
%232, hot, blue, 237" is a 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm portion of tissue
containing two soft tan-pink lymph nodes with surrounding yellow
adipose tissue, with the lymph nodes 1 and 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. RS-4, following fixation, with the lymph nodes entirely
submitted, with the larger lymph node in blocks B2-B4.
C. Received fresh in a
-
The margins
container labeled "left breast
segmental mastectomy" is a 7.3 x 5.7 x 4.3 cm portion of soft
tan-yellow breast tissue, with orienting sutures present.
are inked as follows based upon the sutures: anterior - green;
red; inferior - blue;
posterior - black; lateral - orange; medial
superior - violet. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing a 4.2 x
4.2 x 3.5 cm red-brown to white-tan nodular mass, which grossly comes
RS-10, following
near to the medial, posterior, and anterior margins.
fixation, with tumor to closest medial margin in block C1, tumor to
closest lateral margin in block C2, tumor to closest anterior margin in
block C3, tumor to closest posterior margin in block C4, tumor to
closest superior margin in block C5, tumor to closest inferior margin
in block C6, and with additional sections of tumor in blocks C7
-C10.
D. Received fresh in a container labeled "tissue posterior to segmental
mastectomy" is a 1.7 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm portion of soft red-brown skeletal
The new
muscle, with a suture indicating the new posterior border.
margin is inked. The specimen is sectioned and is without focal
lesion. AS-3, following fixation.
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Pary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
W 3/15/13
✓ QUALIFIED
Yes
✓ DISQUALIFIED 3
Date Reviewed:
No
