UUID:64284B50-E227-4484-904E-E629F7F9DBC1
TCGA-A7-A13H-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Carcinana, Infiltrating lobular, Nos
852013
SPECIMEN
A. Right axillary sentinel node
B. Right breast
CLINICAL NOTES
silk stitch marks superior breast
سال
11/1060
Site: breast, C50.9
Nos
female with breast cancer.
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right breast cancer
CLINICAL HISTORY:
year old
POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right breast cancer
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Right axillary sentinel node, biopsy: Three lymph nodes.
Negative for malignancy on frozen.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"A. right axillary sentinel node" and consists of a 5.5 x 3
x 1.5 cm. piece of fatty yellow tissue. The specimen is sectioned to
reveal three separate lymph nodes. One measures 4 cm. in greatest
dimension and shows prominent fatty replacement of the hilus.
Another node measures 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension and the smallest
lymph node appears to measure 1 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph
node tissue is entirely frozen. The largest lymph node is sectioned
and entirely frozen as frozen sections AFS1 and AFS2. The medium
sized lymph node is entirely frozen as frozen section AFS3 and the
possible smallest lymph node is frozen as frozen section AFS4. RS4
kaa
B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right)
breast" is a 24.5 cm. (superior to inferior) x 19.0 cm.
(medial to lateral) x 5.0 cm. (anterior to posterior) diffusely
cauterized soft, lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose
tissue in keeping with breast designated as right per requisition
slip and container and oriented by a single suture as stated
previously. There is a 7.5 cm. (medial to lateral) x 4.5 cm.
(superior to inferior) slightly wrinkled white skin ellipse with a
central, inverted, 0.5 x 0.5 cm. nipple along the anterior aspect.
The intact deep margin is inked black and the specimen is sectioned.
There is a stellate, 2.2 cm. (medial to lateral) x 1.6 cm. (superior
to inferior) x 1.3 cm. (anterior to posterior) tan white lesion at
the junction of the four quadrants subjacent to the aforementioned
skin ellipse. The lesion is 4.0 cm. from the inked deep margin and
1.7 cm. from the overlying skin ellipse. A 2.3 cm. (anterior to
posterior) x 1.3 cm. (superior to inferior) x 1.3 cm. (medial to
lateral) vacant biopsy cavity is present medial to the
aforementioned lesion. A portion of the lesion and a portion of
normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The cut surfaces throughout the remainder of the specimen consist
predominantly of glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue
with a minimal amount of interspersed delicate tan-white fibrous
tissue. A single, 0.3 cm. "blue dome cyst" is identified within the
lower outer quadrant (see block 10). Representative sections are
submitted in 11 blocks as labeled. RS-11.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Deep margin subjacent to lesion; 2 - lesion to
overlying skin ellipse; 3-6 - lesion and representative biopsy
cavity; 7 random upper outer quadrant; 8 - upper inner quadrant; 9
lower inner quadrant; 10 - lower outer quadrant; 11 - nipple with
subjacent tumor.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Microscopic examination of the sentinel lymph nodes.
from the right axilla involve evaluation of two H&E-stained
sections at the time of frozen section and an additional three
H&E stained sections of each of the tissue blocks after formalin
fixation and paraffin embedding. Pancytokeratin AE1/AE3
immunohistochemical stains were also evaluated.
Although no tumor
was identified on the original frozen sections, tumor was identified
in the permanent sections in the largest lymph node in blocks AFS1
and AFS2. Overall, the metastatic tumor measures 8 mm in greatest
dimension. No extranodal tumor is identified (pNla).
B.
Microscopic examination of the right breast mastectomy
reveals
Invasive carcinoma: Present
Histologic type:
Infiltrating lobular carcinoma
Histologic grade: Elston SBR grade 2
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 1-2
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (PT):
2.2 cm (pT2)
Specimen margins: Completely negative for tumor (much greater
than 1 cm from tumor)
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Focally present
Nipple (Paget's): There is no evidence of Paget's disease.
Invasion of skin or chest wall: Not identified
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified
Description of non-tumorous breast: Prominent lobular carcinoma in
situ was
identified associated with the invasive tumor and towards the edge
around the invasive tumor. The background tissue shows.
proliferative fibrocystic
changes with florid ordinary ductal hyperplasia and columnar cell
change,
cysts and microcysts, apocrine metaplasia and sclerosing
adenosis.
Comments: E-cadherin immunohistochemical stain was evaluated on
block 11 and demonstrated a lack of staining in both the invasive
and the in situ tumor,
helping to support the lobular interpretation.
Distant metastasis (PM): Cannot evaluate pMx.
Prognostic markers:
Have been ordered on block Bll.
Breast Prognostic Marker Report:
Results
% positive.... Staining intensity.
Estrogen receptor:...
80%
Moderate strong
Moderate
Progesterone receptor:.. 30%
Her2/neu by IHC:...
.2+
Interpretation
Estrogen receptor:.
POSITIVE
Progesterone receptor:.. POSITIVE
Her2/neu by IHC:
EQUIVOCAL, BLOCK B11 SENT FOR FISH
Comments
Fixation time:
30MIN
Cold ischemia time: .....62HRS
Prognostic markers were done by immunohistochemical stain on
paraffin sections from 10% neutral buffered formalin fixed tissue
using Ventana corporation antibodies on a Benchmark automated
stainer.
The Her2/neu antibody is clone 4B5 and has been approved by the
FDA as an aid in the assessment of breast cancer patients for whom
Herceptin treatment is considered.
This laboratory meets the test validation and quality assurance
requirements of the ASCO/CAP guidelines for Her2 and ER testing for
carcinoma of the breast (Arch Pathol Lab Med 2007;131:18-43. Arch
Pathol Lab Med 2010;134:907-922). ER, PR and HER-2 results are
scored using the recommended ASCO/CAP criteria.
4x2,14x1, 15x3,20x2,25×3
DIAGNOSIS
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph nodes, biopsy:
B.
METASTATIC LOBULAR CARCINOMA PRESENT IN 1 OF 3 LYMPH NODES.
Tumor 8 mm in greatest dimension, no extranodal tumor present
(pNla).
Right breast, mastectomy:
Infiltrating lobular carcinoma, tumor size 2.2 cm in greatest
dimension (pT2).
Resection margins are negative for invasive carcinoma.
Lobular carcinoma in situ.
Proliferative fibrocystic changes and prior biopsy site
effects.
Estrogen receptor Positive
Progesterone receptor Positive
HER-2 Equivocal, block sent for FISH testing.
See microscopic description.
DIAGNOSIS
M.D. (Electronic Signature)
riteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
[IPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
ase is circle):
eviewer initial
sx QUALIFIED
Yes
Na
DISQUALIFIED
Date Reviewed;
