Gender: Male
ICD0-3
Carcinoma, Urothelial NOS
812013
PATH Site: Bladder, lateral and
Anterior Wall C67.8
COCF Site: Bladder, lateral wall
Race: White
Pathology Report:
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Fifteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/15).
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Twenty-five lymph nodes, no tumor (0/25).
C. Left ureter tip; excision:
-
Portion of ureter, no tumor.
067.2
UUID:B5902DC7-953C-4944-8555-534BEDE6A248
TCGA-FD
-ASBT-01A-PR
Redacted
D. Urinary bladder and prostate; cystoprostatectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with focal spindle cell
sarcomatoid differentiation (5%), invading thru the bladder wall and into the
perivesical fat, see pathologic parameters.
- Distal urethra margin, free of tumor.
- Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia and focal dense
chronic active inflammation.
E. Distal left ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
F. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma with focal sarcomatoid
differentiation (5%).
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 5 cm, right lateral and anterior walls.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/40).
9. pTNM: pT3b,N0,MX.
Effective
his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD
Electronically Signed Out by [], MD
Clinical History:
Patient is an
year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing
cystoprostatectomy, bilateral lymph node dissection and bilateral ureter
biopsies.
Specimens Received:
A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Left ureter tip
D: Bladder and prostate
E: Distal left ureter
F: Distal right ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in six containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "#1 right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of yellow to tan
lobulated fibroadipose tissue that measures 7 x 5.5 x 1 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph nodes and is entirely submitted as follows:
A1-2: One lymph node bisected
A3: Three lymph nodes
A4-6: Three lymph nodes each
A7: One lymph node bisected
A8-12: Remainder of specimen
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "#2 left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of yellow-tan
lobulated fibroadipose tissue that measures 7 x 6 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph nodes and is entirely submitted as follows:
B1: One lymph node bisected
B2: Three lymph nodes
B3: One lymph node bisected
B4: Two lymph nodes
B5: Three lymph nodes
B6: Two lymph nodes
B7: One lymph node bisected
B8: One lymph node
B9: One lymph node
B10-16: Remainder of specimen
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "#3 left ureter tip".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented portion of ureter that
measures 0.6 x 0.5 cm. The external surface is white, dense, gray, smooth and
glistening and focally covered by yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen
is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette Cl.
D. Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 316.7 g, 17 x 8.5 x 4.2 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7.5 x 6 x 3.5 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 5.5 x 4.2 x 3.8 cm prostate with a 34 cm long by
0.6 cm diameter rubbery catheter in place in the urethra. Also received are 2
detached vessels both 6.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The bladder has a
4.5 x 3.5 cm area of disruption on the lower anterior wall and the prostate has
a 2.5 x 2 cm area of disruption at the apex. The right seminal vesicles measure
3 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm and right vas deferens measures 8.5 cm in length by 0.6 cm in
diameter. The left seminal vesicles measures 3.5 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and left vas
deferens measures 8 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The right ureteral
stump measures 2.3 cm, the left measures 2 cm, the urethral stump measures 0.7
cm, and each demonstrates an intact, patent lumen.
The right half of the prostate is inked blue and the left half is inked black.
The outside of the bladder is inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened
anteriorly along the urethra. The outer surface of the prostate is tan and
shaggy. Sectioning demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri-urethral nodularity with
no discrete masses or indurations.
The opened bladder reveals a 5 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm firm, ulcerated, tan-brown mass
with a heaped up rim of firm tissue located in the upper anterior wall and upper
portion of right lateral wall. On cut section, the mass is firm and tan-white
with hemorrhagic foci and patches of necrosis centrally and extends into the
adipose tissue to a depth of 2.5 cm, to within 0.1 cm of the deep margin. The
surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled and tan with a uniform 0.2 cm wall
thickness. Bilateral ureteral orifices, adjacent to the trigone, are identified
and probe patent. Photographs are taken.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1: Left ureter resection margin
D2: Right ureter resection margin
D3: Distal prostatic urethral margin
D4: Prostate apex
D5: Section of right prostate through verumontanum
D6: Section of left prostate through verumontanum
D7-D8: Section of right prostate above verumontanum
D9-D10: Section of left prostate above verumontanum
D11: Seminal vesicles and vas differentia
D12: Mass closest to inked outer surface
D13: Mass at mucosal surface
D14: Mass and adjacent grossly normal bladder wall
D15: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
D16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
D17: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall at trigone
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "#5 distal left ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented portion of ureter and
attached fibroconnective tissue the specimen measures 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The
portion of ureter is received previously opened with the mucosa exposed. The
specimen is bisected and entirely submitted cassette E1.
F. The sixth container is additionally labeled as "#6 distal right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a portion of ureter that measures 3.5 x
0.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is further oriented as stitch on non-margin side,
which is inked yellow. The external surface is pink to tan smooth and glistening
focally covered by yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen is entirely
submitted as follows:
F1: Margin
F2: Non-margin side
F3-5: Remainder of the specimen
XXX
[
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
w 12/18/12/
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Pinr Malignancy History
Dial/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Peviewer itin
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed
Yes
DISQUALIFIED
No
12/18/12
