Criceria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Puel/Synchronous Pripesty Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer initials
ONALIFIED
Date Reviewed.
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED
bw 10/21/11/
UUID:01992912-611F-4AA8-8570-8062CBCCAF70
TCGA-
A1-A0SP-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating duct, NUS 8500/3
Site: breast, NOS
C50.9
lu 10/21/11
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Left axilla sentinel lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/3).
B. Right medial breast, excision:
1. No tumor.
2. Usual ductal hyperplasia, sclerosing adenosis and calcifications.
C. Right breast, partial mastectomy:
1. Invasive ductal carcinoma, 2.2 cm, grade 3; see comment.
2. Ductal carcinoma in situ, high nuclear grade with necrosis; see comment.
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 2.2 cm.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 3 points.
Mitotic count: 3 points.
Tubule/papilla formation: 3 points.
Total points and overall grade
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None.
- Skin/nipple: Not sampled.
=
- Margins for invasive tumor: Negative.
-
9 points = grade 3.
Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is <0.1 cm away, on slide C7).
· Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is at least 0.8 cm away).
-
-
->
· Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is at least 2.4 cm away).
"
-
· Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide C5).
· Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide C3).
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): Comedo and solid.
Ductal carcinoma in situ size: DCIS present admixed with invasive cancer.
-
Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: High grade.
Page 1 of 5
Surgical Pathology -
-
Necrosis in DCIS: Present.
Working Draft
-
-
· Microcalcifications: Present in DCIS and benign ducts.
· Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ: Negative.
"
· Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 1.5 cm away, on slide C7).
- Medial margin: Negative.
- Lateral margin: Negative.
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.6 cm away, on slide C7).
· Anterior/inferior margin: Negative.
Lymph node status: Negative.
Number of positive lymph nodes: 0.
- Total number sampled: 3.
- AJCC/UICC stage: PT2NOMX.
Select slides (C2, C3, C4) were also reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the diagnosis.
Immunostains for ER/PR and Her2 neu will be performed the results reported in an addendum.
All margins were oriented, Inked and examined microscopically.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Right axilla, sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: Three lymph nodes, no carcinoma. (Dr.
FS2 (B) Right medial fibrosis, rule out carcinoma, biopsy: Fibrocystic change, calcification, no tumor.
(Dr.
Clinical History
The patient is a
year-old woman with a history of right breast adenocarcinoma diagnosed by fine
needle aspiration. She now undergoes right breast partial mastectomy and right sentinel lymph node
biopsy.
Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in three parts, each labeled with the patient's name and unit number.
Part A, additionally labeled
," consists of a single soft irregular piece of red-yellow
fibrofatty tissue measuring 3 x 2 x 0.5 cm (stitch marks highest count). One candidate lymph node is
identified at the stitched area; this is inked blue. Additionally, two more lymph node candidates are
identified. Three lymph node candidates are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, and
subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining fibrofatty tissue is submitted in cassette A2.
Part B, additionally labeled "
," consists of a single firm, unoriented, oval piece of
yellow-pink fibrofatty tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.7 x 0.7 cm. One side of the specimen is inked blue
and the opposite side is inked green. The specimen is bread-loafed, and two central representative
sections are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette B1. The remaining tissue is submitted in cassettes B2-B3.
Part C is additionally labeled
-
"1
· SPECIMEN TYPE: Partial mastectomy.
- SKIN ELLIPSE: Not present.
- NIPPLE: Not present.
-
-
-
· ORIENTATION:
-
-
· Long suture: Lateral.
· Short suture: Superior.
· INKING (for microscopic evaluation):
- Black: Deep.
- Green: Anterior inferior.
· Blue: Anterior superior.
SIZE OF SPECIMEN:
Page 2 of 5
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
- Medial-Lateral dimension: 4.3 cm.
- Superior-Inferior dimension: 4 cm.
Anterior-Posterior dimension: 1.8 cm.
->
- TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: Eight.
-
First slice (slice #1): Medial margin.
Last slice (slice #8): Latera margin.
GROSS PATHOLOGY: The specimen consists of a 22 gm partial mastectomy specimen. A tan-pink,
irregular, firm mass is noted in the more superior aspect of the specimen, which measures 1.5 × 0.7 x
0.7 cm. A portion is taken for tissue banking. The mass appears to be present in slices 3-6. The
mass appears to come within <0.1 cm away from the deep and anterior-superior margins in slice 4.
The mass comes within 0.2 cm away from the anterior- inferior margin in slice 3. No localization
needle or specimen mammogram are included in the specimen. Representative sections are submitted
as follows:
Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassettes C3-C4:
Cassettes C5-C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:
Cassette C9:
Cassette C10:
Perpendicular representative sections of medial margin, slice 1.
Middle slice 2.
Closest approach to anterior inferior margin, entire slice 3.
Closest approach to deep and anterior superior margins, entire slice 4.
Superior slice 5.
Middle slice 6.
Inferior slice 8.
Perpendicular sections of slice 8, lateral margin.
Fee Codes:
Pathology Resident
Addenda
Addendum.
Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
/Patholoalst
Signed:
Status: Signed Out
By:
Addendum Comment
An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed by manual
morphometry on block C7.
The test for estrogen receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.
The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.
Result of HER2/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HER2/neu oncoprotein over-expression.
An immunohistochemical assay was performed by manual morphometry on block C7 using the CB11
monoclonal antibody to HER2/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was ✪ on a
scale of 0-3.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of
HER2/neu oncoprotein.
Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered Indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas wit
Page 3 of 5
1
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining Intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results 
of the FISH test are Issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent 
correlation between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.
The immunonemvidace stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the
They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
ine FDA has determined that such Clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not 
be 
regarded as Investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.
Other Specimens
Specimen Class:
athologist
Electronically signed out on
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
Final Diagnosis
Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Cyst contents; see comment.
Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Right breast scar, B: Right breast, partial mastectomy w/o lymph nodes
Final Diagnosis
A. Skin, right breast, excision:
1. Skin with scar and surgical site changes.
2. No carcinoma.
B. Right breast, partial mastectomy:
1. Benign breast tissue.
2. Surgical site changes.
3. No carcinoma.
Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
Final Diagnosis
Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Adenocarcinoma, see comment.
Specimen Class:
Status: Signed Out
Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged
Page 4 of 5
Final Diagnosis
Surgical Pathology -
Working Draft
Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged
NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation.
Transformation zone components are present.
FND OF REPORT
Page 5 of 5
