Name:
XXXX
Gender:
MRN:
F
XXX
Location: XXX
UUID:0BB6CAC8-CE26-461F-A9FE-46E28E96A368
TCGA-EW-A423-01A-PR
Redacted Laboratory
Case #:
XXXX
Collected: XX
Received: XX
Reported:
Copy To:
XX
Physician: XXX
Pathologic Interpretation:
A. LEFT BREAST NEEDLE LOCALIZATION LUMPECTOMY:
cm.
INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA with pleomorphic features, Nottingham grade 2 (3+2+2=7), measuring 2
PLEOMORPHIC LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN SITU is present.
Prior biopsy site present.
The invasive carcinoma is 0.1 cm from inferior and lateral margins (green, orange).
B. HOT SPOT #1, AXILLA I, CT-xxx:
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).
C. HOT SPOT #1, AXILLA ICT -xxx:
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).
ICD-03
Carcinoma, infiltrating, lobular, Nos
Site: breast, NOS
Note: Receptor studies and keratin stains to follow. See Tumor Summary.
Surgical Pathology Cancer Case Summary
Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Size (for excisions less than total mastectomy):
Greatest dimension: 5 cm
Additional dimensions: 4.5 x 3.5 cm
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma:
Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 2 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Skin is not present
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS): No DCIS is present
Lobular Carcinoma in Situ (LCIS): Present (pleomorphic type)
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive lobular carcinoma (pleomorphic type)
Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score:
Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation
Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism
050.9
852013
7-24-12 20
Score 2: Cells larger than normal with open vesicular nuclei, visible nucleoli, and moderate
variability in both size and shape
Mitotic Count: Score 2
Overall Grade: Grade 2
Margins:
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1 mm
Distance from superior margin: > 5 mm
Distance from inferior margin: 1 mm
Distance from anterior margin: > 5 mm
Distance from posterior margin: > 5 mm
Distance from medial margin: 4 mm
Distance from lateral margin: 1 mm
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (Neoadjuvant) Therapy:
In the Breast: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 2
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 2
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (> 0.2 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (> 0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and/or > 200 cells): 0
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (≤ 0.2 mm and ≤ 200 cells): 0
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (PT):
pT2: Tumor > 20 mm but ≤ 50 mm in greatest dimension.
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis identified histologically
Distant Metastasis (PM):
Not applicable
Ancillary Studies (performed on another specimen: xxxx):
Estrogen Receptor: POSITIVE (> 50%)
Progesterone Receptor: NEGATIVE (less than 1% immunoreactive cells present)
HER2/neu Immunoperoxidase Studies: NEGATIVE (CISH: NOT AMPLIFIED)
***Electronically Signed Out By***
NOTE: Some immunohistochemical antibodies are analyte specific reagents (ASRs) validated by our laboratory (Her 2, Parvo, H. pylori, HBcore). These ASRS are clinically
useful indicators that do not require FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5-ER, PgR 636-PR, A485-HER2, H-11=EGFR, CCH2/DDG9-CMV, F39.4.1=AR and HPV by
ISH. All immunohistochemical stains are used with formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as positive
or negative.
XXX
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum
Addendum Diagnosis
Date Ordered: XX
Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: xx
Date Reported: xx
A. LEFT BREAST NEEDLE LOCALIZATION LUMPECTOMY:
Immunohistochemical studies were performed on formalin fixed tissue with the following results for [invasive
carcinoma/DCIS/metastatic carcinoma] (block xxX):
Estrogen receptor
ID5
Progesterone receptor
PgR 636
HER-2/neu (c-erb-B2)
B. HOT SPOT #1, AXILLA I, CT-xx:
POSITIVE (>90%)
POSITIVE (1-10%)
NEGATIVE O
Immunohistochemical studies were performed on formalin fixed tissue with the following results for metastatic
carcinoma (block B):
Keratin: NEGATIVE (see note).
Note: A single cell that appears to be keratin positive is present in the subcapsular space. However, the nuclear size
and morphology of this cell is different than the primary tumor cells. Selected slides were reviewed with Dr. XX and
concurs with the diagnosis.
C. HOT SPOT #1, AXILLA ICT-xx:
Immunohistochemical studies were performed on formalin fixed tissue with the following results for metastatic
carcinoma (C):
Keratin: NEGATIVE.
Interpretation Guidelines: For hormone receptor immunohistochemical analysis, the percent of immunoreactive
nuclei in the invasive or in-situ carcinoma is assessed manually by light microscopic examination and reported as
follows:
Positive: greater than or equal to 1 percent of nuclei immunoreactive
Negative: less than 1 percent of nuclei immunoreactive
Non-neoplastic mammary epithelial cells are immunoreactive for estrogen and progesterone receptors (internal
control).
For HER2/neu immunohistochemical analysis, the cell membrane staining is assessed manually by light microscopic
examination. Cytoplasmic immunoreactivity alone is scored as a negative result.
Reference #1: XX
Reference #2: XX
Clinical History:
Infiltrating lobular cancer in left breast. Please evaluate margins of lumpectomy. If sentinel nodes are negative, do
immunohistochemistry.
Specimen(s) Received/Processing Information:
A: Left breast lumpectomy, 1 suture superficial margin, 2 suture medial, 3 suture
inferior H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1,
H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initial x 1, Estrogen Receptor (ER) x 1,
Fee Codes:
Progesterone Receptor x 1, CERbB2, HER2/neu x 1
B: Hot spot #1, axilla I, CT-356 H&E, Initial x 1, unstained x 1, unstained x 1, unstained x
1, unstained x 1, Desmin 33 x 1
C: Hot spot #1, axilla | CT -473 H&E, Initial × 1, unstained x 1, unstained x 1, unstained x
1, unstained x 1, Cytokeratin Cocktail (KER) ×1
Gross Description:
A.
Received fresh and labeled "Left breast lumpectomy" is a yellow-tan irregular-shaped lumpectomy,
measuring 5.0 x 4.5 x 3.5 cm and weighing 35.0 grams. The specimen is inked as follows: superior margin
inked blue, inferior margin inked green, medial margin inked red, lateral margin inked orange,
anterior/superficial margin inked yellow and deep margin inked black. Sections reveal an ill-defined area with
firm to hard consistency, 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. This area is located toward the medial to posterior resection
margin at 0.2 to 0.3 cm from the deep resection margin (nearest), 0.3 cm from the inferior resection margin,
3.0 cm from lateral resection margin, 2.0 cm from the superior resection margin, 1.0 cm from the superficial
resection margin. The remainder of the specimen is homogeneous, yellow-tan, grossly unremarkable
adipose tissue. No other suspicious lesions are present. The specimen is submitted in nine cassettes, as
follows:
Tissue with clip in toto
Perpendicular section superior margin
Perpendicular section inferior margin
Perpendicular section medial margin
Cassette #1-3:
Cassette #4:
Cassette #5:
Cassette #6:
Cassette #7:
Cassette #8:
Cassette #9:
Perpendicular section lateral margin
Perpendicular section superficial margin
Perpendicular section deep margin
B.
Received in formalin and labeled "Hot spot #1, axilla I, ct xx" is a yellow-tan irregular-shaped soft tissue
fragment, 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Sections reveal one lymph node, 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. The lymph node is bisected and
submitted in toto in one cassette.
C.
Received in formalin and labeled "Hot spot #1, axilla I, ct xx" is a yellow-tan irregular-shaped soft tissue
fragment, 2.8 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. Sections reveal one lymph node, 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. the lymph node is bisected and
submitted in toto in one cassette.
XXX
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/SynchronquNuted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Yes
Nu
Date Reviewed:
SQUALATE
11/4/2
