UUID:CEE5BD08-0FC9-4780-A5CB-A0962A3BE721
TCGA
-FD-A3SQ-01A-PR
Gender: Male
DOB:
Redacted
Race:
Report Date:
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right distal ureter; biopsy:
-
· Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor or dysplasia.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
-
Two of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(2/8) with extranodal extension.
C. Right pelvic lymph nodes:
-
Two of thirteen lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(2/13) with extranodal extension.
D. Left distal ureter; biopsy:
-
Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor or dysplasia.
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
One of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(1/8).
F. Bladder, prostate, seminmal vesicles, vas deferens; radical
cystoprostatectomy:
- High-grade urothelial carcinoma, see pathologic parameters.
- Ulcerated mucosa with marked granulomatous reaction consistent with
therapy effect.
-
· Adenocarcinoma of prostate, see below.
Urothelial Carcinoma
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma
2. Grade of tumor: High-grade
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular fat
4. Tumor distribution:
Solitary, 3.8 cm in size
left lateral wall
posterior wall
5. Ureteral Margins: Negative
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
ICD-0-3
Yes
Ato
Criteria
iagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Mahgnancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noten
ase is (cirule).
Review alt
QUALIFIED
Prostate ✗
DataReviewed:
u 4/2/12
DISQUALIFIFI
4/2/12
Carcinoma, urothelial, NOS
812013
Site:
Path: bladder, Nos
C639
CQCF: bladder, wall, lateral
7. Lymph nodes: Five of 29 lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial
carcinoma
8. pTNM: pT3a, N2, MX
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason's Grade: 6 (3+3)
2. Perineural invasion: Absent
3. Tumor location:
Peripheral zone
-
right
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 1%
167.2
4912
по
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor
7. Fibromuscular capsule: Tumor confined to the prostate
8. Peripheral margin: Negative for tumor
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor
10. Proximal (basilar) margin: Negative for tumor
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostatic tumor
12. pTNM: pT2a, NO, MX
XXX
[ ], M.D.
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident or Fellow.
Electronically Signed Out by () M.D.
Clinical History:
The patient is a
year-old male with bladder cancer who undergoes radical
cystectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.
Specimens Received:
A: Right Distal Ureter
B: Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes
C: Right Pelvic Lymph Nodes
D: Left Distal Ureter
E: Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes
F: Bladder, Prostate, Seminmal Vesicles, Vas Deferens
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in six containers, each labeled with the patient name
and medical record number.
A. Part A is further designated as "1. right distal ureter." Received fresh
for frozen section is a 0.7 cm segment of pink-tan tissue with a 0.5 cm lumen,
consistent with a ureter. The specimen is serially sectioned and partially
submitted for frozen section, which is read as "segment of ureter, no evidence
of tumor and no dysplasia" per Dr. []. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted in cassette A2.
B. Part B is further designated as "2. left pelvic lymph nodes." Received
fresh for frozen section is a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of pink-tan,
fibrofatty tissue. Two lymph nodes are submitted for frozen section and read as
"one lymph node with microscopic focus (<2 mm) of metastatic urothelial
carcinoma, another lymph node is benign, reactive" per Dr. () The frozen
section remnant is submitted in cassette BIFS. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted entirely as follows:
B2:
one large lymph node, bisected
B3:
B4:
B5-B6:
one large lymph node, bisected
three small lymph nodes
remaining fibroadipose tissue
C. Part C is further designated as "3. right pelvic lymph nodes." Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm aggregate of fibrofatty
:
1
tissue. Multiple lymph nodes are identified upon dissection, the largest
measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 0.2 cm. The lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
C1-C11: one large lymph node in each cassette, some are bisected and/or
serially sectioned
C12:
four lymph nodes
D. Part D is further designated as "4. left distal ureter." Submitted fresh
for frozen section is a 0.9 cm length of pink-tan, rubbery tissue with a 0.6 cm
external diameter and a 0.3 cm lumen. The specimen is bisected and submitted
for frozen section. The frozen section is read as "ureteric segment with no
evidence of tumor and no dysplasia" by Dr. () The remainder of the frozen
section is submitted in cassette D1FS. The remaining specimen is submitted in
cassette D2.
E. Part E is further designated as "5. left pelvic lymph nodes." Received in
formalin is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm aggregate of soft, fibrofatty tissue, which is
dissected to reveal multiple lymph nodes. The specimen is submitted as follows:
E1-E4:
one large lymph node in each cassette, bisected
four possible lymph nodes
E5:
E6:
four possible lymph nodes
F. Part F is further designated as "6. bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas
deferens." Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 9.5 x 8.0 x 5.5 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat. The attached prostate
measures 4.0 x 3.8 x 2.9 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 4.0 x 1.5 cm and
the left vas deferens measures 9.5 cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.5 x
1.8 cm and the right vas deferens measures 9.0 cm. The entire specimen is inked
blue. The prostate is opened along the urethra and reveals tan-brown, wrinkled
mucosa. The bladder itself measures 6.0 x 5.0 x 3.8 cm. The right ureteral
stump measures 2.4 cm and has a patent lumen. The left ureteral stump measures
2.0 cm and also has a patent lumen. There is a 3.8 x 2.6 cm ulcerated, red-tan
lesion on the left posterolateral wall, reaching from the left trigone to the
bladder dome. Grossly, the mass extends into the prostatic urethra and the left
half of the prostate. The right ureteral orifice at the trigone can be probed,
the left cannot. Sectioning of the mass shows gross tumor invasion of the
mucosal wall, 1.0 cm from the deep margin. The mucosa of the anterior wall is
glistening and pink-gray in color. Sectioning of the prostate reveals
trabeculated, pink-tan periurethral nodularity. No lesions are grossly
identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
distal resection margin
representative section of lesion from left posterolateral wall
representative lesion in bladder dome
right posterior bladder wall
Fl:
F2-F4:
F5:
F6:
F7:
right anterior bladder wall
F9:
anterior bladder wall
F10:
right inferior bladder wall
F11-F15:
F16-F20:
F21:
representative sections of the left prostate
representative sections of the right prostate
seminal vesicles and vas deferens
F22:
distal ureter
F23:
distal vas deferens
XX
[] M.D.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A1FS. Right distal ureter: Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor and no
dysplasia.
B1FS. Left pelvic lymph nodes: One lymph node with microscopic focus (<2 mm)
of metastatic urothelial carcinoma, another lymph node is benign, reactive.
DIFS. Left distal ureter: Ureteric segment with no evidence of tumor and no
dysplasia.
