UUID:2DB5519B-B36D-4616-94F3-601A01185F22
TCGA-ST-A9QA-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL
Procedure Date:
Accession Date:
CLINICAL DATA: breast mass
IOC/FROZEN:
A1FS: Infiltrating carcinoma.
Received at
reported at
GROSS EXAMINATION:
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, infiltrating duct and
mucinous (mixed by other types,
infiltrating duct.)
852313
Site: breast, Nos
€50.9
A. "Left Breast Mass, One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitches Anterior (Frozen Section)". The
specimen is received fresh
for frozen section designated "Left Breast Mass, One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitches
Anterior"
and consists of a 9.5 x 6.3 × 4.0 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue. The
posterior margin is inked black
and the anterior margin is inked blue. Sectioning shows a 3.4 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm solid ill-
defined tan-white infiltrating
mass which extends very close to the anterior and posterior inked margins.
Representative sections are submitted
in twelve cassettes. A1FS- frozen section remnant; A2-A4- mass and posterior margin;
A5, A6- mass and anterior
margin; A7- inferior margin; A8- superior margin; A9, A10- medial margin; A11, A12-
lateral margin.
Placed in formalin:
Removed from formalin:
Fixation time: 56 hours and 5 minutes
B. "Left Breast Mass (B), One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitch Anterior". The specimen is
received in formalin designated "Left Breast Mass (B), One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitch
Anterior" and consists of a 6.8 x
4.2 x 2.7 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue with sutures as described. The
lateral margin is inked black,
the medial margin is inked blue, the superior margin is inked yellow, and the inferior
margin is inked orange and
the posterior margin is inked green. Sectioning shows an ill-defined area of grey-white
induration measuring
approximately 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm located in the posterior portion of the specimen, and
extending close to the
inferior, lateral and medial margins. The remaining specimen is composed primarily of
pale yellow lobular adipose
tissue. Representative sections are submitted in fourteen cassettes. B1-B6- ill-defined
area of induration with
lateral, medial and inferior margins; B7, B8- posterior margin; B9- B11- superior margin;
B12- anterior margin;
B13, B14- additional sections of breast tissue with lateral and medial margins.
Placed in formalin:
Removed from formalin:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL
Fixation time: 7 hours and 20minutes
سد
11/20/14
C. "Skin Tags". The specimen is received in formalin designated "Skin Tags" and
consists of
multiple grey-brown skin fragments measuring up to 0.5 cm. Submitted in toto in one
cassette.
Placed in formalin:
Removed from formalin:
Fixation time: 7 hours and 20 minutes
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Left breast mass, excision:
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast; see synoptic report.
B. Left breast mass:
Few microscopic foci of atypical ductal hyperplasia, with marked fibrocystic changes.
Residual carcinoma is not identified.
C. Skin tags:
Skin tags, benign.
SYNOPTIC REPORT: INFILTRATING BREAST CANCER
Procedure: Excision without wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling: Not performed
Specimen Laterality: Left
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive ductal carcinoma with areas of
mucinous differentiation
Tumor Size: 3.4 cm in greatest diameter
Histologic Grade:
Glandular/Tubular Differentiation: 3
Mitotic Rate: 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: 3
Overall Grade: 3 of 3
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ
Few foci of ductal carcinoma in situ present; extensive intraductal component not
identified
Margins:
Deep surgical margin: Positive for invasive carcinoma (one low power field)
Anterior surgical margin: Negative for infiltrating carcinoma (infiltrating carcinoma
reaches within 0.5 mm of
the anterior surgical margin, in two low power fields)
Lymph Nodes: Not submitted
Lymph-Vascular Space Invasion: Present
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL
Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNX
Distant Metastasis: Not Applicable
COMMENT:
Prognostic markers are pending; a supplemental report will follow.
CPT Code: 88307 x 2, 88305, 88331
Per TSS- mucinous component is 502.
Shorld
be
mvervous ductal.
categorized as 'other' -
Critaria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prier Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initials
QUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
1 11/17/14
Yes
No
DISQUALIFIED 14
