UUID:89019149-B6D2-4540-9BFE-BACCA9F5DA14
TCGA-UY-A78P-01A-PR
Clinical Diagnosis/History:
Redacted
The patient is a -year-old woman who presented in
hematuria. She underwent a transurethral resection of a
ICD-O-3
812013
Carcinoma, urothelial
Sute: Bladder NOS (67.9
708/20/13
with gross
Per TSS, TURBT was performed on
high-grade muscle invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. The this TCGA tumor.
patient now undergoes a radical cystectomy with
resection of the uterus, vagina, bilateral tubes and ovaries.
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number. Parts A-C are received
fresh. Parts D-G are received in formalin.
-
Part A, additionally labeled "1 right distal ureteral margin FS," consists
of a single white-tan segment of ureter that
measures 0.5 x 0.4 × 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section diagnosis as FS1, with the remnant tissue
submitted in cassette Al.
-
Part B, additionally labeled "3 left distal ureteral margin FS," consists of
a single white-tan segment of ureter and
fibroadipose tissue that measures 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The ureter only is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis as FS2, with
the remnant tissue submitted in cassette Bl. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted in cassette B2.
Part C is additionally labeled "bladder, uterus, ovaries, portion of vagina."
and consists of bladder, uterus, adnexae and
vagina. The entire specimen weighs 385 grams. The bladder measures 7.5 x 7 x 2
cm. The tumor measures 2.0 x 2.5 cm and extends
1.0 cm in depth and is right adjacent to the right ureteral orifice; it is
confined to the bladder. There is no invasion beyond
the bladder wall. The tumor is 5 cm distance from the urethral margin. The
bladder mucosa is gray-brown with small and
edematous. No further ulcerations, polyps or masses can be visualized or
palpated. The urethra measures 3.5 in length and 1,5
cm in diameter. The right ureter measures 1.5 x 0.5 cm, the left ureter
measures 1.3 x 0.5 cm. The vaginal cuff measures 0.9 cm
in greatest dimension, the uterus measures 9 cm from fundus to cervix, 6.5 cm
from cornu to cornu, 2.5 cm from anterior to
posterior. The right ovary measures 3 x 2 x 1 cm, the left ovary measures 3.0
× 2.4 × 1.0 cm. The right ovary reveals corpora
lutea on cut section, the left ovary reveals a white rim on cut section. The
BCR
right fallopian tube measures 2.5 x 0.5 cm, the
left fallopian tube measures 4.0 x 0.5 cm. The cervix is opened in the frontal
plane, the cervix shows nabothian cysts, but no
other lesions are found. The endometrium measures 0.1 cm and the myometrium
measures 1.5 cm.
Cassette submission:
Cassette Cl:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
Right ureteral margin en face.
Left ureteral margin en face.
The urethral margin is inked green and
perpendicular sections from 12-3 o'clock are submitted.
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Perpendicular sections of urethral margin 3-6 o'clock.
Perpendicular sections from urethral margin 6-9 o'clock.
Urethral margin, perpendicular section 9-12 o'clock.
Perpendicular sections of vaginal cuff (multiple
Full-thickness sections of bladder, tumor and cervix
representative sections).
Cassette C8:
demonstrating their relationship.
Cassette C9:
Tumor in relationship to right ureter.
Tumor (the tumor is entirely submitted).
Representative sections of the bladder trigone.
Representative sections of right bladder.
Representative sections of left bladder.
Posterior cervix.
Cassette C10:
Cassette Cll:
Cassette C12:
Cassette C13:
Cassette C14:
Anterior cervix.
Cassette C15:
Cassette C16:
Cassette C17:
Cassette C18:
Cassette C19:
Cassette C20:
Anterior endomyometrium.
Posterior endomyometrium.
Right ovary and fallopian tube.
Left ovary and fallopian tube.
Two candidate lymph nodes.
Part D, labeled "right pelvic lymph node," consists of a single soft,
irregular piece of yellow-brown, fatty tissue measuring 7
x 6.5 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is examined for candidate lymph nodes.
candidate lymph nodes are found, ranging from 0.2
to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
follows:
Multiple
Candidate lymph nodes are submitted as
Three whole nodes.
One node, bisected.
Multiple whole nodes.
Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassette D4:
One node, bisected.
Cassette D5:
Cassette 06:
Cassettes D7-D8:
Multiple whole nodes.
One node, bisected.
One node, bisected.
The remaining tissue is returned to the container.
Part E, labeled "left pelvic lymph node," consists of multiple soft, irregular
pieces of yellow-brown, fatty tissue measuring 7
x 4.8 x 2.5 cm in aggregate. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found,
ranging from 0.1 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Candidate lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
Multiple whole nodes.
Cassette El:
Cassettes E2-E3:
Cassette E4:
Cassette E5:
Cassette E6:
Cassette E7:
Cassettes E8-E9:
One node, bisected.
One node, bisected.
One node, bisected.
Two nodes, one bisected.
Two whole nodes.
One node bisected.
The remaining tissue is returned to the container.
Part F, labeled "distal left ureter," consists of a single soft, roughly
tubular piece of yellow-brown tissue measuring 1.3 cm
in length with a diameter of 0.4 cm. The specimen is unoriented; the two end
margins are inked blue. The specimen is
cross-sectioned and submitted in cassette Fl. There is remaining tissue,
consisting of two fragments of soft, irregular,
yellow-brown fat, measuring 2 x 1 x 0.2 cm. These remaining fragments are
entirely submitted in cassette F2.
Part G, labeled "distal right ureter," consists of a single soft, unoriented,
roughly tubular piece of brown-tan/white tissue
measuring 1.5 cm in length with a diameter of 0.5 cm. The end margins are
inked blue. The specimen is serially cross-sectioned
and entirely submitted, with the end margins in cassette G1 and the central
portion in cassette G2.
Diagnosis Comments:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1.
2.
3.
4.
Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell).
Tumor grade: High grade.
Tumor size: 2.5cm.
Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis
propria.
5.
6.
7.
Lymphatic/vascular invasion:
None identified.
Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: None identified.
Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: No adjacent organs
involved.
9.
8. Surgical margins: Free of tumor.
Lymph nodes:
0 of 20 lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor;
Other pathologic findings in bladder: None identified.
11. AJCC/UICC stage:
10.
pT2bN0Mx.
Interoperative Diagnosis:
FS1
(A) Right distal ureteral margin, biopsy: No tumor seen.
FS2 (B) Left distal ureteral margin, biopsy: No tumor seen.
Final Diagnosis:
A.
B.
C.
D.
Right distal ureteral margin, excision: No tumor.
Left distal ureteral margin, excision: No tumor.
Bladder, uterus, adnexae, en-bloc resection:
-Bladder: Invasive urothelial carcinoma, high-grade, invading
muscularis propria; negative surgical margins; see
comment.
-Endometrium: Atrophic.
-Myometrium: No significant pathologic abnormality.
-Uterine serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.
-Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.
-Ovaries: Inclusion cysts.
-Tubes: No significant pathologic abnormality.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/10).
riteria
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/10).
iagnosis Discrepancy
F. Distal left ureter, resection: No tumor.
w 8/12/13
Yes
No
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
ual, Synchronous Primary Note
ase is (circle):
eviewer Inials
QUALIFIE DISQUALED
Date Reviewed:
8-12-2013
