ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, infiltrating ductal, Nos 8500/3
Site: breast, Nos
Case Number:
C50.9
2/18/11
Collection Date:
Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
A: Sentinel lymph node #1, right axillary, excision
- Positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma in one of four lymph nodes (1/4)
- Size of metastasis: 0.6 cm
- Extracapsular extension: Present, extensive
- Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed
B: Sentinel lymph node #2, right axillary, excision
- Positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma in one lymph node (1/1) (metastatic focus present on
frozen slide only)
- Size of metastasis: 0.1 cm
· Extracapsular extension: Not identified
- Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed
C: Non-sentinel lymph node, right axillary, excision
- Positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma in one lymph node (1/1)
- Size of metastasis: 0.6
- Extracapsular extension: Present, extensive
- Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed
D: Sentinel lymph node #3, right axillary, excision
- Positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma in one lymph node (1/1)
- Size of metastasis: 0.2
- Extracapsular extension: Not identified
- Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed
E: Breast, right, mastectomy
Tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma
Nottingham combined histologic grade: 3
Tubule formation score: 3
Nuclear pleomorphism score: 3
UUID:5BC01981-366E-44EC-A986-087DB7904E5C
TCGA-AQ-A0Y5-01A-PR
Redacted
Mitotic count score: 3
Focality of tumor: Unifocal
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.4 cm (gross measurement)
Tumor location: Outer half (at interface between upper outer and lower outer quadrants)
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified
Perineural invasion. Present
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
DQ=ITN
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
Reviewer Initi.!s
QUALIFIED
Date Revieveu:
DISQUALIFIED
f 110/01/10
In Situ Component: Present, ductal carcinoma in situ
In Situ Component type/Architecture pattern: Ductal carcinoma in situ, solid and comedo types
In Situ Component nuclear grade: 2-3
In Situ Component necrosis: Present
In Situ Component extent/size: DCIS present admixed with invasive ductal carcinoma, comprising
approximately 5% of the total tumor volume
Extensive intraductal component: Absent
Nipple/skin involvement: Not identified
Margin status:
Invasive component: Negative; closest posterior margin 0.4 cm; all other margins more than 1.5
cm away
In Situ component: Negative; more than 1.0 cm away from all margins
Right axillary lymph nodes (none present in this specimen, but the total number includes
specimens A-D and F):
Total number with metastasis: 5
Total number examined: 17 (5/17)
Size of largest metastasis: 0.6 cm
Extracapsular extension: Present, extensive
Microcalcifications: Present, associated with invasive ductal carcinoma
Other findings: Fibrocystic changes
AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2 pN2a
Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this
report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information.
F: Lymph nodes, right axillary, lymphadenectomy
- Positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma in 1 of 10 lymph nodes (1/10)
• Size of metastasis: 0.1 cm
- Extracapsular extension: Not identified
Comment:
For the results of immunohistochemical stains for ER, PR and Her2/neu, please
refer to the addendum report of the prior specimen
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section was requested
FSA1/FSA2: Right axillary sentinel lymph node #1
- Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/2); Dr agrees.
FSB1: Right axillary sentinel lymph node #2
- Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/1); Dr agrees.
FSC1: Right axillary non-sentinel lymph node
- Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/1)
FSD1: Right axillary sentinel lymph node #3
- At least micrometastatic carcinoma in one lymph node
Frozen Section Pathologist:
Clinical History:
invasive ductal Ca, right breast, Grade 2.
Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.
Container A: Received fresh for frozen section is a 3 × 3 × 2 cm aggregate of multiple tan lymph
node candidates and adipose tissue. Two larger lymph nodes were isolated, sectioned and frozen
as FSA1 and FSA2.
Further examination of the adipose tissue finds four additional lymph node candidates from 5x5
x 3 mm to 7 x 4 x 4 mm. All lymph node candidates are submitted as is in block A1. Fibrofatty
tissue is retained in formalin.
Container B: Received fresh for frozen section is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm fragment of yellow fibrofatty
tissue within which one lymph node candidate was identified at the time of frozen section. The
lymph node was serially sectioned and was frozen as FSB1. Fibrofatty tissue is retained in
formalin.
Container C: Received fresh for frozen section is a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm fragment of pink/yellow
fibrofatty lymphoid tissue. The fragment was frozen as FSC1, NTR.
Container D: Received fresh for frozen section is a 1 x 1 x 0.5 cm fragment of yellow lobulated
fibrofatty lymphoid tissue. The fragment was serially sectioned, was frozen as FSD1, NTR.
Container E:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Time in fixative: approximately 8 hours, 45 mins
Type of mastectomy: unspecified
Size of specimen: 880 grams; 22 cm medial to lateral x 25.5 cm superior to inferior x 4 cm
anterior to posterior
Orientation of specimen: Per the specimen requisition, a short stitch indicates superior and a long
stitch indicates lateral.
At the time of Tissue Procurement triage, the specimen is inked as follows: anterior=blue,
posterior=black, and lateral=yellow.
Skin ellipse dimensions: 18.0 x 13.5 cm; The lightly pigmented skin ellipse is remarkable for some
blue sentinel dye discoloration lateral and slightly inferior to the nipple.
Nipple/areola: Nipple: 1.0 cm
Areola: 2.7 cm
The structures are unremarkable.
Axillary tail: There is no well delineated axillary tail. The lateral most breast tissue is sectioned,
however, no lymph node candidates are identified.
Biopsy site: absent
Residual tumor: present, A 2.4 x 2.0 x 1.9 cm firm white mass with a somewhat gritty cut surface
and stellate borders is identified. This mass has no hemorrhagic areas or necrotic areas readily
identified.
Location of tumor: roughly located in the midline between the upper outer quadrant and the lower
outer quadrant
Distance of mass/biopsy site from surgical margin: The mass is focally 6 mm to the black inked
posterior margin, 1.5 cm to the skin (anterior margin), 9 cm to the inferior margin, 11 cm to the
superior margin, at least 4.5 cm to the lateral margin and distant (at least 14 cm) to the medial
margin.
Gross involvement of skin or fascia/muscle by tumor: absent
Description of remainder of breast: The remainder of the mastectomy specimen consists of yellow
lobulated fibroadipose tissue separated by thin fibrous septae. Much of the breast consists of
dense white fibrous breast tissue. The breast tissue medial to the mass is intensely stained with a
blue dye. There are some areas within this firm breast tissue which are firmer than others.
Other remarkable features: On the superior edge of the tumor a small metal radiographic marker
is identified.
Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal was taken by Tissue Procurement.
Digital photograph taken: no
Block Summary:
(Inking: anterior=blue, posterior=black, lateral=yellow)
E1 - nipple
E2-mass and closest black inked deep margin, perpendicular sections
E3 perpendicular sections to closest skin margin (no tumor represented)
E4-E8 additional tumor (E7, E8 one slice, bisected)
E9-E10 breast tissue immediately surrounding mass
E11 inner upper quadrant
-
E12 inner lower quadrant
E13 outer upper quadrant
E14 outer lower quadrant
-
E15-E16 lateral breast tissue
Container F is additionally labeled "right axillary contents." It holds a 12 x 9.5 x 3.0 cm aggregate
of multiple fragments of yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue which are palpated for lymph node
candidates. Multiple lymph node candidates from 4 x 4 x 3 mm to 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm are
identified.
Block summary;
F1 five lymph node candidates
-
F2 two lymph node candidates
-
F3 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
F4 - one lymph node candidate, sectioned
F5 one lymph node candidate, sectioned
F6-F7 one lymph node candidate, sectioned
F8 - one lymph node candidate, sectioned
F9-one lymph node candidate, sectioned
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed.
Signature
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).
