UUID:DD36E5EA-D22A-47F7-AF4D-743FBDEBA629
TCGA-FD-A43Y-01A-PR
Gender: Male
DOB:
Race: White
Report Date:
Pathology Report:
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinomas wreathelial,
Nos 8120/3
CQCF Site: bladder, wall, laterall (67.3
Path: bladder, Nos
667.9
Surgical Pathology Report
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/7).
B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Nine lymph nodes, no tumor (0/9).
C. Urinary bladder, prostate, and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy:
- Bladder with invasive urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation,
see pathologic parameters.
-
لیا
9/29/12
< 10% squamous TSS. 9/7/12
Urothelial carcinoma invades thru the bladder wall, into the perivesical fat
and left seminal vesicle.
- Urothelial carcinoma is <0.1 cm away from the posterior margin.
- Adenocarcinoma of the prostate, see pathologic parameters.
D. Right common iliac lymph nodes; dissection:
-
Six lymph nodes, no tumor (0/6).
E. Left common iliac lymph nodes; dissection:
-
Seven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/7).
F. Presacral lymph nodes; dissection:
- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/7).
G. Left distal ureter; biopsy:
- Portion of ureter, negative for tumor.
H. Right distal ureter; biopsy:
- Portion of ureter, negative for tumor.
Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
riteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IIPAA Discrepancy
'rior Malignancy History
Jual/Synchronous Primary Noted
ase is (circle):
Reviewer pitia:
سر
QUALIFIED Y
Date Reviewed:
DISQUALINED
Yes
No
tho
7/7/12
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissues and left seminal vesicle.
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary (bladder left posterior wall, lateral wall and
trigone), 4.7 cm.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.
7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor (tumor is <0.1 cm from the
inked margin).
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/36).
9. pTNM: pT4,N0, MX. (pT4 for seminal vesicle involvement).
Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters
1. Gleason Score: 3+4=7.
2. Perineural Invasion: Present.
3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - right and left.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 20%.
5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.
6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.
7. Extraprostatic extension: Present.
8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.
9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.
10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/36).
12. pTNM: pT3a,N0, MX.
this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).
XX
[] MD
Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD
Clinical History:
The patient is a
-year-old male with a history of bladder cancer. He undergoes
cystectomy and ileal conduit.
Specimens Received:
A: Left pelvic lymph nodes
B: Right pelvic lymph nodes
C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, and vas deferens
D: Right common iliac
E: Left common iliac
F: Pre-sacral
G: Distal left ureter
H: Distal right ureter
Gross Description:
The specimens are received in eight containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.
A. The first container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal multiple is as apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-3.2 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
A1: 4 lymph nodes
A2-6: One lymph node in each cassette, bisected
B. The second container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-3.5 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
B1-2: 3 lymph nodes in each cassette
B3-4: 1 lymph node in each cassette, bisected
B5-6: 1 lymph node, serially sectioned
C. The third container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate,
seminal vesicles and vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a
408.2 g, 19 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm specimen consisting of a 10 x 9 x 3 cm bladder with
an attached 3.8 x 2.9 x 2 cm prostate. The left ureter is 2 cm in length by 0.7
cm in diameter. The left ureter is not probe patent to the trigone. The right
ureter is 1.5 cm in length by 0.4 cm in diameter. The right ureter is probe
patent to the trigone. There is a 0.4 cm in length by 0.7 cm in diameter
urethral stump which is patent. The right seminal vesicle is 3.2 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm
and the right 5 is 9.5 cm in length by 0.3-0.5 cm in diameter. The left seminal
vesicle and left vase are matted together along the left posterior aspect of the
specimen and therefore cannot be measured. Also received are 2 detached vessels
measuring 5.5 cm and 8 cm in length by 0.3 cm in diameter. The specimen is inked
blue on the right and black on the left side of the prostate and the serous
serosal surface of the bladder is inked black. It is then opened anteriorly to
reveal a 4.7 x 4.5 cm indurated lesion which is tan-gray and ulcerated involving
the left posterior, trigone and left lateral wall. This area completely involves
and occludes the left ureter orifice. Gross photographs are taken. This lesion
is 3.9 cm from the distal ureter margin and 0.2 cm from the right ureter
orifice. The lesion is surrounded by hyperemic, erythematous mucosa. On the
posterior wall there are 2 areas with grey-brown exudate adherent to the mucosa.
These areas measure 2 x 1.5 cm and 0.7 x 0.6 cm. The remaining mucosa is
glistening, tan-pink and grossly unremarkable. The large lesion is serially
sectioned to reveal a firm white cut surface extending to a depth of 2.1 cm,
which surrounds the left seminal vesicle and vas and stretches the inked black
serosal surface. Serial sectioning of the prostate reveals gritty brown
material present within cystically dilated spaces involving the left side of the
prostate. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Left ureter margin
C2: Right ureter margin
C3: Urethral margin
C4-C5: Apical margin of the prostate, serially sectioned
C6-C11: Representative sections of prostate
C12: Right seminal vesicle and vas
C13: Left seminal vesicle and vas
C14: Tumor from trigone
C15: Tumor, left lateral wall
C16: Tumor, posterior wall (demonstrates tumor approaching inked serosal
surface)
C17: Left lateral wall, tumor surrounding seminal vesicle and vas
C18: Uninvolved right lateral wall
C19: posterior wall, small exudate/plaque
C20: posterior wall, larger plaque
C21: Uninvolved dome
C22: Uninvolved anterior wall
C23: Additional section of tumor, left lateral wall
D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "right common iliac".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.4 cm aggregate of
lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.1-0.3 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:
D1-2: 4 lymph nodes in each cassette
D3-6: Representative lymphovascular tissue
E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left common iliac".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 3.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
lobulated yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-0.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
E1-2: 2 lymph nodes in each cassette
E3-4: Remaining tissue
F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "pre-sacral". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm aggregate of lobulated
yellow fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes to reveal
multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-0.3 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
F1: 1 lymph node
F2: 3 lymph nodes
F3: Remaining specimen
G. The seventh container is additionally identified as, "7. Distal left ureter,
stitch is distal ". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 3.3 cm portion of
ureter with a 1.1 cm diameter. The outer surface is tan and smooth with
scattered areas of hemorrhage. There is a scant amount of attached yellow
adipose tissue. There is a clear suture at the distal end. The specimen is
serially sectioned to reveal a wall thickness of 0.1 cm and tan unremarkable
mucosa. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Gl: Distal end
G2: Proximal end
G3: Representative sections from the center of the specimen
H. The eighth container is additionally identified as, "8. Distal right ureter,
stitch on non-margin side ". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 0.1 cm
portion of ureter with a 0.6 cm diameter. The outer surface is pink to tan and
glistening with a 2 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm portion of attached yellow adipose tissue.
There is a clear suture at the non-margin side. The remainder of the specimen is
serially sectioned to reveal a pinpoint lumen and a wall thickness of 0.2 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
H1: Margin side
H2: Non-margin side
H3: Representative sections from the center of the specimen
XXX
[] M.D.
